ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
104 PROCESS AND PROGRESS OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
A. BRINDA  
 B. Tech, Mechanical in Manufacturing Engineering  
Email ID: brinda.a2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence ? 
[1] It is defined as usage of artificial object like computer or any other machine to work with 
complex issue or problems. It is combination of physiology intelligence and a part of computer 
science, in computer sense, it isa ability of being reaching goals in world. It‘s Intelligen ce is 
capacity to Understand, think, imagine, memorizing taking choices and decisions from experiences. 
It is generally helps us  to developing and advancing machines as if it do jobs of humans much more 
like humans and do all it in lesser time. So it is ca lled as an Artificial Intelligence. Based on 
Philosophy of  Artificial Intelligence it is  divided into Strong AI and Weak AI. [2] Artificial 
engineering it is generally a way of constructing intelligent machines or like intelligent computer 
programs.it also  refer to understand human intelligence by computers. But biological explanations or 
observations are not defined. [3] John McCarthy father of Artificial Intelligence said that 
engineering and a computer science knowledge to build a intelligent machines wh ich work 
automatic for use of human and revolution . It even use logics and computer program in devices for 
automatic work of machines and it is used in  biological applications, mathematical laws, and 
mechanical engineering. It depend on 4 categories like self awareness, reactive machines, theory of 
mind, limited memory.  
 
History of Artificial Intelligence?  
[4] At earlier, aspects like philosophy, tale and even imagination sketch a word called ‗Artificial  
Intelligence‘. And even many discoveries in electro nics, aspects of engineering took a steppingstone 
for artificial intelligence, and this make an achievement like solving problems which leads to 
understand and analyse something new, exploring ourselves, and conclude and demonstrating 
programs which make s kill in language , translating ,proving  some theorem ,align ourselves with 
skills which build up a knowledge.[5] The two publisher named Peter Norvig and other man called 
Stuart Russel in the paper which published by them  have suggested some ideas about ar tificial 
intelligence .on 1950  ‗Artificial intelligence‘ term is coined by John McCarthy, and thereby on year 
1958 he invents LISP program. Hence the father of Artificial Intelligence is John McCarthy. George 
F Ludger explained about plan and policies of A I. Supervised type of machine learning has been 
described by Niklas Lavesson.[6] The history of Artificial Intelligence is started in 1956 when John 
McCarty told a term which is contributed to his subject in the conference in New Hampshire 
(Dartmouth  colle ge) .Actually the initial aim was to ambitious and does not proposed for what it 
actually told it will. Between 1960s and 1970s the Artificial Intelligence generally focussed on 
(expert system) or KBS. Expert systems are mainly focussed on  medical diagnosi s to molecular 
structure.  
 
Growth of Artificial Intelligence ? 
[7]With development of internet, e -commerce, sensors and big data platform for information 
community, and even cyberspace AI has profoundly changed to new : AI 2.0 .this development Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
105 leads in cre ating New models: Internet Based, collaboration which helps in production and 
providing jobs in services for users. New means: smart manufacturing integrating human -machine, 
flexibility and virtualization. New form: intelligent manufacturing like ubiquitou s interconnection, 
innovating in  mass, cross -border integration. This new models, forms, and means are ultimate 
growth of Artificial Intelligence. [8]  The ,4th industrial revolution is Artificial Intelligence. By using 
big data platform it transformed all industries around whole world. Basis of ‗computer system which 
programmed ‗help us to solve more precisely and technically the real -word problems than 
‗computer system‘. Many related Business related issues cannot be solved by deterministic approach 
in th at circumstances Artificial Intelligence plays a key role. AI helps us to tackle problem which 
actually difficult in Business(recommend products, some marketing finding fraud in cards, insurance 
issues, and all other) by actual determined computer   
 
Applic ations of AI in Healthcare ? 
[9]Generally, in health care most important of traditional machine studying is foretell some precise 
medicine, treatment should be given to succeed in treatment it is just called a Supervised learning. 
But later comes a complex part called Neutral network or as deep learning  it is established since 
1960s in healthcare field for 3 decades it help identifying whether a patient has, or will acquire 
certain disease or their symptoms. In deep learning they focuses in viewing images th at is seen 
beyond that which cannot be perceived by naked eyes.Nowadays, most hospitals not following any 
manually noting and storing data, instead they start for Electronic health records(EHR) .AI generally  
important process for improving documentation is  ‗voice recognition‘. Generally AI provides many 
ways and approach for patient safety and provide them a affordable care through there work. It also 
work to enhance persons experience.[10]It generally enlarge opportunity in healthcare like generally 
many u nderdeveloped and developing countries no medical practitioner to help someone from 
undergoing unfair treatment.in such cases AI offer machines to do. Like performing x -rays to treat 
for tuberculosis. It works to improves the standard of services like AI h elp in Time management. 
Equipment which perform some healthcare facilities compared to humans which give a sufficient 
extra time. These helps in treatment and detection hence misdiagnosis are reduced. It focuses in  
advances Immunotherapy for cancer patient s to get treated.it is way that help in identifying , 
visualizing and curing way for cancer. Artificial Intelligence improves the quality of services, many 
countries lack therapist and physicians for proper treatment hence AI uses of machines for 
diagnosti cs, Using X -rays, CT, MRI help in detecting in lesser time. [11]AI is extremely 
encouraging and developing hope even though it doesn‘t cure all. It helps to identify and recognise 
and cure most of the patient with sufficient medicine and help them to live a self -reliant life .and 
also to get the life of the harnessing one to comfort zone with specific medicine.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production ? 
[12] In this work Artificial intelligence describe in the way of (PdM) Predictive maintenance for 
manufacturin g. PdM generally refer to ability of saving money by reducing and forecasting machine 
Breakdown,  in these instance we generally refer how generalised will  appear with real production 
data. We created and accessed a machine learning model which depend on we ll organised boosting 
resolution to find errors or any failures.[13] Today, AI combined with recent advance in web ,and 
Semantic web -jointly defined as Semantic Web of things, It  is to very important role in industry 
4.0.Due to this authors generally calle d it as industry 4.0 as a Semantic Web of Things (SWeTI).[14] ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
106 Artificial Intelligence if we analyse it is developing rapidly in some new ‗Internet plus‘ which in 
turn leads in innovating  new models ,some ecosystem in industry ,ideas in architecture, 
manufa cturing in technology, to combine AI in technology and all other ecosystem. [15] In 
Intelligent Manufacturing (IM) is considered as a latest version of Smart Manufacturing (SM) it will 
tell about technologies (Smart) such as (IoT) Internet of Things, Syste m like Cyber, Big Data is 
considered under Industry 4.0. Artificial Intelligence (1.0) is defined as contents which is structured 
and centralised and later it modified and evolved into Artificial Intelligence (2.0) is defined as a 
contents which are unstru ctured and they are decentralised it is generally deep learning it just 
explain us how Intelligent manufacturing (IM) accept Artificial Intelligence (1.0) to get modifies 
Smart Manufacturing (SM) by Artificial Intelligence (2.0).  
 
Security and Surveillanc e of AI?  
[16] AI is helps in providing a paramount importance in security and surveillance one such is 
maritime surveillance in which focus monitor of fisheries (production, Decline),migratory activity, 
national security policy. Radars and ALS does not cover the enter maritime  sensorshence Space -
based sensors are crucial instead. [17]Security and Surveillance are very important to treat human 
life and their property . The idea of using lock -key for door now modified in way in which we start 
to use of cam eras, alarms and sensors. Surveillance in AI is task in which monitoring and inspecting 
a person or some other gadget just to prevent or lower the risk of undesired threatening and 
hazardous in order to support normalcy. Even though there is lack of well -trained labour force and 
workforce. The growth of the communication and other technology(ICT) gave rise to increase in 
automation which is part of application of surveillance. This had made to decrease in human action 
and system is well developed to be vali d and authentic. Automation have made between Internet of 
Things (IoT)  and Artificial Intelligence is suitable and made more efficient. [18]Security and 
Surveillance with help of cameras and video are well advanced and very useful for safety for public. 
Due to limited labours for security so might result in undetect so many risk and dangerous. So that 
they decides to solve this by developing real time solutions. The goal to enhance a low -cost, very 
well organised, and a artificial -related solutions, and to identify the tools used on different videos for 
various situation. It can be done by TensorFlow.[19] Safety and protection for any sort of physical 
threat is just given by Security and Surveillance. Changes in Infrastructure of network may cause 
when there  is Surveillance video installation and may affect the  budget(financial). The main motive 
for Surveillance system. When we install any cameras(CCTV) in (UGV) unmanned ground vehicle 
it is move by itself to any geographic locations of it‘s own, by choosing the direction system. 
Analog Transmission is the way in which we can control (UGV) unmanned ground vehiclewithin 
the particular ranges. We can view a video anywhere by any computer devices using Analog. The 
video is board cast through  (Analog) video transm itter and  it get by through (Analog) video 
collector and can be noticed by software which is developed. In the ground control system the 
developed software can by easily notice the smart employee using a model which is deep in learning 
which is actually tr ained for a employee.[20] For protection and security of smaller areas monitoring 
and urban surveillance is very important. The safety of Urban civilisation is important due to 
Warfare of ‗Gray zone‘ they use many methods for disturbing the services and mi slead them by 
giving wrong information.  
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
107 Artificial Intelligence in Education?  
[20]AI provides long term goals in learning(which are long and wide),it access for worldwide 
classroom, studying skills of twenty first century, for every student it associat e with mentor, 
providing a major infrastructural support, interlinking data with support in teaching.[21]Nowadays, 
Education in Artificial intelligence became aimportant trend exists there is a constant rise in AIEd 
(Artificial Intelligence in Education),s mall works have been managed for bringing intense learning, 
AI which is Traditional is commonly used but modern AI is rarely used, the absence of education 
even has a job in AI technologies and engage in education. AI digital technology enhance a 
important  role of making something what we thought, react based on these and also investigate 
further on these.[22]In education if we apply AI it give a way to human learning, on before when IT 
with AI in education many more technologies are created which make stud ents to learn and maintain 
a environment and teachers to educate this example is e -learning or ITS. e -learning is educational 
based system which uses online along with web technology. ITS is result of beginning state of the 
AI.in this, models set for learn ers are called learners models and in based on data technology called 
analytics of learning is developed.it is usually analyzed by historical data of the learners(e -learning) 
Today the important achievement in AI is machine learning.[23] Artificial Intelli gence is considered 
as well founded in education for 15 years, Many new learners and educating people are using it‘s 
applications, most popular application is Robotics, For the purpose of education the Lego Mind 
Storms kits are developed in MIT lab on 1980 s. there are some robots which help in learning 
students and learners are Ozobot and other is Cubelets. [24] Artificial Intelligence are empowered 
mostly education 4.0.In this they meant for an innovative approach and the first is along with  
Artificial Int elligence they associate a process of high educational which help of sensors (small) and 
devices (wearable) for regulating (self) learning. And secondly Education 4.0 focused in didactic 
methods directing with analytics of learning and also machine based a lgorithm learning. The main 
goal of these program is to judge the marks of the students before final examination. They mainly 
focuses in Recognition system (early)for capturing data with include their study course and even as 
personalized (their character)  at the earlier of the semester, and then Auto tutor  By N.A.Crowder 
theory with  adaptive learning and adaptive feedback assessment . FromThis , it clearly focuses for 
students and educationalist which help nourishing them in studies and taste the fruits of  success.[25] 
AIED (Artificial Intelligence in Education) is came forward to teach with computers and pads and it 
make both students and teachers to explore into new ways and to make students understand more 
effectively.it ways not only helps in education but also in business affairs or even in personal uses. 
The technologies which were designed (Learning and teaching) with Artificial Intelligence in 
Education (AIED) Make promote and boosted in robotics and also use of sensors which help in 
detect our surro unding.It says Schools a place in which all come for learning which exists for 25 
years where teachers came forward to teach Students.There will teachers who assist for education in 
Collaborative Robots (cobots) in classrooms of tomorrow and telling works of today about robotics. 
It also visualizes smart classes with help of sensors to hold up in learning and to make new ways 
with Artificial Intelligence in EducationAIED).[26]Artificial Intelligence and education together 
held 2nd International conference i n September 1985 in United Kingdom (Exeter University). 
Intelligent Tutoring System find their origin in Computer Assisted Technologies. There are two 
primary approach in Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Education with use of computer is Intelligent 
Tutorin g System (ITS) by Sleeman and Brown in 1982 and Computer Based Learning Environment 
by Papert  in 1980 and Lawler in 1984. The advancing of either Intelligent Tutoring System (ITS) or 
Computer Assisted Instruction (CAI) use the methods of representation of Knowledge with 
Community of Knowledge Engineering  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
108 Advantages of Artificial Intelligence ? 
[27] AI is generally layout as an everlasting, authentic or well founded and economical(modest).It 
focuses on various branches like in medicine, engineering, and diverse in modelling, predicting, help 
in decision making, even in manufacturing, economics, law and linguistics. And in dynamic use of 
net in searching for machines and engines, and also in advance and lead in transportation 
system.[28]It function is gene rally unlimited, it help in finding unexplored things, it help in finishing 
a project much before human do, it helps in tough and hard work ,it make less error and detects, 
Efficient works can be finished in short span of time, there is high Success ratio,  Various function 
will be done in fixed time.  [29]The main impact is AI is depend on facts neither on sentiments nor in 
emotions, It is not affected by any negative impact as human usually undergo. It doesn‘t sleep as 
humans undergo as a disadvantage as re sult of tiredness, It helps in easier spreading of knowledge, 
When we train something for an Artificial mind , then it will be easy to copy or to teach something 
for others through training because it helps in saving in time. It further focused on the plan  of multi -
task program. [30]In Business AI main motive is to focuses on features, their functions and products 
performance, and it also focuses in taking right decision, making new products, To take supreme 
internal operations in Business, To carry on new markets, To take on and use scare knowledge in 
place where it used. Even to optimize external process like sale and marketing of new products. And 
even use Automation for reducing head count.  [31]The basic need of AI is motivated by a idea that 
new beginne r in AI should require at least an understanding in Literature of AI, Major rise in interest 
of AI lead to increase interest and large investment.[32] Artificial Intelligence can de established 
easily. Artificial Intelligence can be widely distributed in b ranches of industries and also in 
companies. Humans could feel he is loaded with a many activity of programming by own ,and self 
noting and also self -evaluating. Artificial Intelligence is considered as a low -priced labor in which 
our tasks are finished qu ickly and our yield will be more.In excavate(mining) and fuel inspecting 
process we could establish the knowledge of Artificial Intelligence and robotics in order to save 
human life. Because we could construct other robots but could not make other human 
life.[33]Artificial Intelligence are very useful in lessening the error and also help in greater precise 
which is near accuracy. Physicians will judge patients and health issues with help of Artificial 
Intelligence. Frauds can be detected by system called sm art card basis. Important applications of 
Artificial Intelligence is Radio Surgery. When we go for longer trip with help of GPS. [34] The 
advantages of Artificial Intelligence is to Reduce Error it focuses to get accuracy (precise which is 
near to high deg ree of Accuracy) and help to reduce errors. It helps in Physicians , banking and even 
in airline departments and even in many other departments, the physicians name Jiang Jiang Zhi in 
2017 believe that Artificial Intelligence not only help doctors to get b etter decision on clinical 
departments but also can be used in radiology department instead of human idea. Even in banks it 
help to error and to minimize fraud, theft, cyber and all other. And in University college of London 
Haitham Boamar and peter Bentle y Invented Autopilot AI  which majorly help in reducing errors 
may caused due to overload, And other advantage is multitasking tasks are just divided into routine 
& non -routine. By use of machine Intelligence we could perform our Repetitive task. As we know  
Machine do faster anything before human do that may lead to do multitask Example: To spam out 
E-mail using Neutral Networks. Other advantage is work for longer hours As machines (With 
artificial Intelligence) can work for long hours than human can do .Soo n after Artificial Intelligence 
could soon became for experience for dining for taking order, Preparing meals and to even deliver. 
From fast food deliver to provide Non -stop service to customer is a digital innovation capability.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
109 Disadvantages in AI?  
[35]I t might corrupt our rising generations, it will lead in deficiency and scarcity in human 
knowledge(touch), it will go wrong and opposite to what actually scheme want to do,it may mislead 
which lead in destruction, it has a power to replace human jobs.[36]A I require great extent of time 
and money, rising generations could became lazy, joblessness and worklessness will be increased, 
Reliance on machines and new technology will be risen, Dependency on Technology will be 
increased, Mass scale destruction will b e the result of misusing, Idea will only depend  on the 
programmer. Program could be mislead  and work in wrong way. [37]It lacks a basic sense on 
reasoning which might cause several problems, Impotency to describe an logic and cause behind 
sensible decision . It lead to lack in creatives and innovations. Blindly if we depend on Artificial 
Intelligence then it may cause :If someone mislead Artificial Intelligence it will produce irrelevant 
answers. No reason will be given for these irrelevancy.[38]Technology a nd Technologists are costly 
and highly priced, Technologies are undeveloped, They have been oversold in markets, It is difficult 
in connecting those with existing system. It is only too less people who expertise in technology. The 
supervisor does not under stand how cognitive technology and how it work.[39] Equipment are all so 
expensive hence not at easy for developing machines, Even though machines are effective in 
working and cannot be substituted for activities of human in which can create a team .It is very 
expensive may cause bulk of cash in order to repair rebuilding and to create, Much drastic 
unemployment will happen in replacing jobs by Robots, Technology are just perform only for task 
they set for, other than it, it will crash, Many problems will r aise with utilization standards when we 
do many works and tasks with use of robots in turn human activities and jobs will be less. But many 
company are just focusing for interchange just less qualified with more advance Robots in order that 
they do work mo re effectively.[40] Intelligence are considered as nature gifts,But it require lot of 
money for constructing huge machines. Artificial intelligence power may cause huge damages and 
machine get crushed and broken. For repairing and maintaining we require hu ge amount of cash. 
Updating hardware and software according to latest usage will waste in  lot of time, money.  
 
Conclusions of Artificial Intelligence?  
The Conclusions of Artificial Intelligence it just help us to live a better life, Combining Artificial 
Intelligence with Machine Learning helps us to make many things much easier as there. Wondering, 
Since thousand years ago, Machine could understand , analyses and perform the activities what 
human could do. It makes the job easier , it helps in saving time,  money to different sectors.  On the 
wider way, it is branch under Computer Science, Where it‘s main aim is Machine Capacity or 
Ability is to generate Intelligent thinking and Reasonable answers for an External inputs. Even it 
help in Tough and Hard Works. It has Certain disadvantages there will no human touch 
(Knowledge) it make lazy and finally a mass destruction in human activities in Rising Younger 
Generations. Hence, Concluding that anything beyond a limit will bring a danger. We should keep 
track on it  only for our usuage nothing other than it.   
 
References  
Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence.  Artificial intelligence applications to critical 
transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -375. 
Alugubelli, R. (2016). Exploratory Study of Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare.  International 
Journal of Innovations in Engineering Research and Technology , 3(1), 1 -10. ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
110 Ambare, V., Uphad, Y., Tikar, S., Rabade, N., & Ingle, N. Literature Review on Artificial 
Intelligence  
Ambare, V., Uphad, Y., Tikar, S., Ra bade, N., & Ingle, N. Literature Review on Artificial 
Intelligence.  
Bartoletti, I. (2019, June). AI in healthcare: Ethical and privacy challenges. In  Conference on 
Artificial Intelligence in Medicine in Europe  (pp. 7 -10). Springer, Cham.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intellegence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intelle gence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intellegence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Borah, J.,  Sarma, K. K., & Gohain, P. J. (2019). all pervasive surveillance techniques and AI -based 
applications: Current trends and challenges. In  Smart Devices, Applications, and Protocols 
for the IoT  (pp. 54 -82). IGI Global.  
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief  history of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53. 
Chen, X., Xie, H., Zou, D., & Hwang, G. J. (2020). Application and theory gaps during the rise of 
Artificial Intelligence in Education.  Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence , 1, 
100002. 
Ciolacu, M., Tehrani, A. F., Binder, L., & Svasta, P. M. (2018, October). Education 4.0 -Artificial 
Intelligence assisted higher education: early recognition system with machine learning to 
support students' success. In  2018 IEEE 24th International Sym posium for Design and 
Technology in Electronic Packaging (SIITME)  (pp. 23 -30). IEEE.Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, 
A. W. (2012).  
Davenport, T. H., & Ronanki, R. (2018). Artificial intelligence for the real world.  Harvard business 
review , 96(1), 108 -116. 
Davenport , T. H., & Ronanki, R. (2018). Artificial intelligence for the real world.  Harvard business 
review , 96(1), 108 -116. 
Davenport, T., & Kalakota, R. (2019). The potential for artificial intelligence in healthcare.  Future 
healthcare journal , 6(2), 94  
Ghimire, A., Thapa, S., Jha, A. K., Adhikari, S., & Kumar, A. (2020, October). Accelerating 
business growth with big data and artificial intelligence. In  2020 Fourth International 
Conference on I -SMAC (IoT in Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud)(I -SMAC)  (pp. 441 -
448). IEEE.  
Hrnjica, B., & Softic, S. (2020, August). Explainable AI in Manufacturing: A Predictive 
Maintenance Case Study. In  IFIP International Conference on Advances in Production 
Management Systems  (pp. 66 -73). Springer, Cham.  
Khan, M. M., Rizwan -ul-Hasan, S., Ahmed, A., Khan, M. A., & Fahad, M. (2020, February). AI 
Surveillance UGV. In  2020 International Conference on Information Science and 
Communication Technology (ICISCT)  (pp. 1 -6). IEEE.  
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advan tages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
111 Lawler, R. W., & Yazdani, M. (Eds.). (1987).  Artificial Intelligence and Education: Learn ing 
environments and tutoring systems . Intellect Books.  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engi neering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?.  
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries. In  Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Inf ormation and Documentation Centre, Ministry of Defence Delhi . 
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries. In  Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defen ce Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of Defence Delhi . 
Nagao, K. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education. In  Artificial intelligence accelerates human 
learning  (pp. 1 -17). Springer, Singapore.  
Oke, S. A. (2008). A literature re view on artificial intelligence.  International journal of information 
and management sciences , 19(4), 535 -570. 
Patel, P., Ali, M. I., & Sheth, A. (2018). From raw data to smart manufacturing: AI and semantic 
web of things for industry 4.0.  IEEE Intelligent  Systems , 33(4), 79 -86. 
Preethi, S. (2020). A Survey on Artificial Intelligence.  International Journal of Intelligent 
Computing and Technology (IJICT) , 3(2), 39 -42. 
Preethi, S. (2020). A Survey on Artificial Intelligence.  International Journal of Intellige nt 
Computing and Technology (IJICT) , 3(2), 39 -42. 
Rahim, S. M., Mohamad, Z. Z., Bakar, J. A., Mohsin, F. H., & Isa, N. M. (2018). Artificial 
intelligence, smart contract and islamic finance.  Asian Social Science , 14(2), 145.  
Sadek, A. W. (2007). Artificial  intelligence applications in transportation.  Transportation Research 
Circular , 1-7. 
Soldi, G., Gaglione, D., Forti, N., Millefiori, L. M., Braca, P., Carniel, S., ... & Farina, A. (2021). 
Space -based global maritime surveillance. Part II: Artificial intelligence and data fusion 
techniques.  IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine , 36(9), 30 -42. 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Timms, M. J. (2016). Letting artificial intelligence in  education out of the box: educational cobots 
and smart classrooms.  International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education , 26(2), 
701-712. 
Woolf, B. P., Lane, H. C., Chaudhri, V. K., & Kolodner, J. L. (2013). AI grand challenges for 
education.  AI m agazine , 34(4), 66 -84  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
112 Xu, S., & Hung, K. (2020, April). Development of an ai -based system for automatic detection and 
recognition of weapons in surveillance videos. In  2020 IEEE 10th Symposium on Computer 
Applications & Industrial Electronics (ISCAIE)  (pp. 48-52). IEEE.  
Yao, X., Zhou, J., Zhang, J., & Boër, C. R. (2017, September). From intelligent manufacturing to 
smart manufacturing for industry 4.0 driven by next generation artificial intelligence and 
further on. In  2017 5th international conference on enterprise systems (ES)  (pp. 311 -318). 
IEEE.  
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
160 IMPROVEMENT IN DESIGN OF ENGINES TO REDUCE EMISSIONS 
IN AIRCARFT AND INCREASE FUEL EFFICIENCY  
 
SHASHANK SHUKLA  
 
HARSH VARDHAN SINGH  
 
LAKSHYA MISHRA  
Email ID: shashank.shukla2018@ vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Abstract  
The aviation industry in today’s world is growing constantly and it is at its peak. This increases the demand 
for fuel and also results in more pollution by the emission of gases like CO2 and NO2. The scientist and 
engineers are working to increase fuel efficiency of aircraft engines thereby reducing the emissions of the 
greenhouse gases responsible for ozone layer depletion.  
In this paper there is an investigation about different challenges to increase  the fuel efficiency in aircraft 
engines. It also highlights about different alternative fuels for increasing fuel efficiency thereby keeping in 
mind pollution norms.  
Keywords: electric propulsion, bio fuel, greenhouse gases, fuel cell, future aircraft  
 
Introduction  
The efficiency of an engine i.e. a thermal engine is the relation of the total energy stored in a carrier 
(fuel) with the amount of energy required to execute useful work. A fuel -efficient engine is which 
makes the maximum use of the fuel prov ided to perform work. In theory, the maximum efficiency 
that could be achieved by a combustion engine (according to Carnot) is limited to 64%. However, in 
real life, this efficiency is reduced to a maximum of 50% where this 50% efficiency is achieved by 
formula race cars for example, Mercedes‘ Formula 1 engine recently broke the 50% thermal 
efficiency barrier for the first time. The petrol engines we are sing are having an average efficiency 
of 30% max in ideal conditions and the diesel engines which we use  have an efficiency of 30% 
roughly and could be achieved to 41% in ideal conditions. Most of the energy is wasted in air drag, 
friction and heat radiation.  
 The world is facing a petroleum crisis and thus demands an engine which is both fuel and cost 
efficient and could also be used in our day to day commuting. One kilogram of fuel consumes 
fifteen kilograms of air to burn and produce about three kilograms of Carbon Dioxide, significant 
amount of energy is also required to pump the fuel in and out of the en gine. This carbon dioxide 
produced contributes to the world annual production of 31 billion tons of Carbon Dioxide. This CO2 
is a major greenhouse gas which results in major climatic changes. Thus, one additional goal of the 
modern day engineers is to make  engines that also minimize pollutant emission and allow the usage 
of different fuels in transportation systems.  
 The problem faced today in that even if a new engine is made, it should be able to run on the 
current fuels available or if a new fuel is synt hesized it should be compatible with the current 
engines. The acceptance by the consumer is also important. The current development in the 
automobile industries like down sized engines and the use of increased pressure in fuel injection 
must work with the existing fuels.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
161  This study is intended to fine a possible solution for increasing the efficiency of aircraft engines 
or finding cost effective fuels or fuel replacements. The development of these engines is not 
centered only to the daily use aircraft like  airbusA380 and jumbo jets but also to the heavy fighter 
aircrafts used in the international security.  
 
Literary Survey  
[1]-The research shows that at the present time, a ―drop in‖ jet fuel replacement, i.e. a proper 
mixture of kerosene and synthetic fuel,  in a proper composition would be a viable substitute in the 
aircrafts of now and near future. Synthetic jet fuels manufactured using Fischer -Tropsch process are 
very alike to standard jet fuels but contain almost zero sulphur and aromatics, which results in lower 
particulate emissions. Since, synthetic fuels have already been in use for sometimes at Johannesburg 
airport, it would be easy to adjunct the jet fuels of today with synthetically derived fuels. On the 
other hand, a combination of synthetic and bi o- fuels is also a possible midterm solution. On using 
pure bio -fuels we face major challenges like their proclivity to solidify at standard cruising 
conditions, inferior high temperature thermal constancy etc. Therefore, these issues need to be 
addressed to make their future use possible. In spite of these problems the advantages of using bio -
fuels are their environmentally balanced CO2 impact and their potential to become a sustainable 
fuel. Solutions that would be successful for a longer period need to e ffectively minimize the release 
of greenhouse gases, hence, need alternate fuels with almost negligible carbon content, the examples 
of these are liquid Hydrogen and Methane. The drawback of using these cryogenic fuels is that 
major modifications are neede d in the combustor and fuel system components of the aircraft. 
Moreover, a heat exchanger would be required for vaporizing the fuel before combustion and hence, 
compromises must be made with the airframe design. The hefty insulated fuel tank would decrease  
the aircraft‘s energy efficiency in short - ranged flights. [2] -This research shows the advances of the 
modern world towards the ―More Electric Aircrafts‖ (MEA), giving more focus on the flight 
controls. The aircrafts of today are a mixture of electrical, mechanical, pneumatic and hydraulic 
systems which are the products of decades of evolution. In the standard architecture of aircrafts, 
engines convert fuel into power, maximum part of which is utilized for propulsion and the remaining 
for the other compone nts. With the passing decades each system has become more composite 
reducing the efficiency of the aircraft by their interactions. An all -electric aircraft is one in which 
every form of power consumption is electrical in nature. It is believed that an all -electric system has 
more potential in future aircraft use than the conventional aircrafts, both in terms of efficiency and 
environmental impact. There are various steps taken towards MEA, first being, the removal of 
present hydraulic and air engines and in creasing its capability of generating electrical power. This 
needs lots of changes in fault protection techniques, network techniques and generation of 
electricity. The second being the substitution of hydraulic mechanism for electromechanical 
mechanism, r eduction in weight and reducing production and maintenance expenditure, MEA lays 
stress on the usage of electrical energy to advance the performance and life of the aircrafts. [3] -The 
present -day range of aircrafts which are jet powered face a very importa nt challenge, which is the 
reduction of CO2 and CO and NO2 emissions while as increasing the efficiency of aircraft. Since 
the emission of unburned hydrocarbon and carbon monoxide (CO) are thus far very low and these 
pollutants are continuously controlled as expected when engine pressure and temperature ratios are 
elevated, it is very important to change the engine design which will help to reduce the NO2 
emission which in turn will increase the fuel efficiency. One way to reduce fuel efficiency and 
reduce NO2 is that we can use the concept of staged combustion, splitting the loading of fuel among 
the several fuel and air phases which controls the localized fuel to air ratio to reduce the NO2 ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
162 production rate as the power is elevated. The pilot section should  be at a position which is near the 
centreline of the engine and the main section should be outboard and should be towards the 
downstream of the pilot section. The benefit of using this type of system is that it eradicates the 
combustor receptiveness to bl ow out. [4] -Fuel-cooled thermal management consists of breaking of 
large hydrocarbon molecules into simpler and smaller alkenes, this process is endothermic and 
improvement of hydrocarbon fuels. It is a way for cycle improvements and pollution emission 
control in gas turbine engine applications. This technology is based upon the standard multi -
component hydrocarbon fuel for improvement in fuel cooled thermal management. It involves the 
improvement of endothermic potential of JP -7 and JP -8+100. It is demonst rated with the help of 
bunch scale test rig working under flow conditions and passage geometers mimetic of practical heat 
exchangers for aircraft and missile technology applications. Full scale sector rig tests are performed 
in order to define the combusti on and emission of supercritical jet fuel. It is also used to ensure 
safety and working of the fuel systems, including a fuel air heat exchanger. [5] -Fuel efficiency of a 
turbofan engines can greatly be increased by decreasing its weight and size and also by decreasing 
the engines specific fuel consumption. By reducing the weight of the engine, it results in decreasing 
aircraft maximum take of weight which can further reduce aircraft lift to drag ratio. By bringing 
down the engine size mainly, the nascle ra dius and length of the engine results in lesser thrust 
requirement of the engine specific fuel consumption can decrease the fuel consumption. We can 
reduce engine specific fuel consumption by increasing the ability to push forward or we can say it 
propulsi on and thermal efficiency. By using the modern computational fluid dynamics abet 3D -
blade designs, it is already quite aggressive and therefore we can take a limited advantage in fuel 
efficiency. By improving component efficiencies and reducing other losse s like duct pressure losses 
and the cooling flows losses, it is also a way to improve the specific fuel consumption. [6] -This 
research shows NASA‘s response to the increasing demand and care about the environment. 
Subsonic fixed wing project of NASA recogn izes four problems which are exhibited in air travel. 
These problems include emissions, noise and fuel burn of aircraft and span area in design of aircraft. 
NASA has been exploring one of the propulsions and vehicle concepts for year 2020 that is a 
synergi stic combustion of a distributed propulsion system and a hybrid -wing -body airframe. NASA 
has already taken some steps like in 2006 NASA financed a one -year research or study which was 
focused on benefits of distributed propulsion, body or airframe design t o increase efficiency and 
done some operation on aircrafts from some local airports. To develop a silent aircraft, MIT Institute 
in Cambridge have developed a conceptual design known as SAX -40 which was further worked on 
by NASA and Boeing. [7] - The design  and construction of an aircraft which would be powered by 
fuel cell and will be unmanned like drones. Many researchers and scientists have developed aircrafts 
which are powered by fuel cell to show possibilities of using fuel cells as new source of energy  and 
power. For existing batteries as a replacement fuel cell system are combined generators using 
hydrogen. In past first fuel cell was developed by AeroVironment in 2005 which used hydrogen in 
liquified from. Aircrafts using fuel cell of current generati on is classified on the basis of methods to 
store hydrogen and fuel cell types. For development of an aircraft using fuel cell, some of these 
things should be kept in mind. Fuel cell systems should be starting fast and recharge of fuel should 
be convenient . Fuel cell components should be more reliable and should have less weight. Test of 
performance of aircrafts using fuel cell should be done in harsh conditions and climatic conditions 
like rainy day etc.  [8]-It is shown that consumption of aircraft fuel an d cost of fuel is a major 
problem faced by aircraft industry since past years. Reduction in consumption of fuel ss important is 
as leads to reduction of emissions like greenhouse gases and pollutants that can cause damage to us. 
This paper discusses a meth od to model airplane terminal to reduce fuel consumption that will lead Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
163 to differences between fuel consumption which is modelled and one which is measured. One way by 
which fuel consumption could be minimized is by procedures such as continuous arrivals w hich are 
descent and tailored. In present era, available airplane performance models show that error in fuel 
consumption in terminal area is order of 20 to 40%. The method is based on using airplane 
manufacturers‘ existing airplane performance tools and fo r existing fuel consumption methods, it is 
not a modification. Nowadays, due to increasing fuel costs, aircraft stakeholders have developed 
some algorithms for modelling consumption of fuels. [9] -It is shown that the main motives in the 
design of aircrafts  of future is to reduce nose made in airports, emissions in reduced level and less 
amount of fuel burn. Over last 50 years, aircraft industry got many changes due to increase in air 
traffic through various processes by use of technology due to which alread y levels of noise pollution 
and fuel consumption decreased but at a low level. Technology which have to be used in engines of 
aircraft are enhanced design in propulsion of system that which uses superconducting, electric 
generators that are cooled and driv es low noise electric fans by use of motors. New propulsion 
systems lead to fuel efficiency. The bypass ratio (BPR) which is known as the ratio of rate of flow of 
stream that passes outside core divided by that flowing through the core, plays a crucial rol e in 
designing of engine. A BPR which is higher means exhaust with lower speed which reduces fuel 
consumption at the cost of an increase in fan diameter. Aero propulsions which are electric offers 
huge benefits in the design of aircraft, resulting in much more energy efficient engine. [10] -Air 
travel is one of the fastest growing modes of transportation. It is the most important mode to travel. 
Increase in the total fuel consumption and the potential impacts of aircraft engines emissions on the 
global atmos phere has led to thinking among the engineers, scientist and authorities. So, they have 
to search for the various emission options and to reduce fuel demand of engines. The technological 
and operational fuel efficiency of aircraft was first analysed by usi ng Breguet range equation. By 
using the equation, the aviation system efficiency parameter was defined which determines its 
efficiency and load factor. Multivariable statistical analysis was used to determine and correlate this 
parameter with direct operat ing cost.  
 The fuel burn reduction potential for future aircraft system is to be estimated by this paper with 
the help of extrapolation of historical trend in aircraft technology and operations and the fuel burn 
reduction for future aircraft systems.  
 
Findings  
After reading all papers it is clear that bio fuels can be a replacement for the fossil fuels because of 
their balanced emissions of the CO2 and other greenhouse gases. Further fuel efficiency could be 
achieved by modifying engine design, using e lectric propulsion etc. Fuel cooled thermal 
management systems is also a way for cycle improvements and pollution emission regulation in gas 
turbine engine application. Fuel efficiency of a turbofan engine can be greatly increased by 
decreasing weight, siz e and also decreasing engine specific fuel consumption.  
 Over last 50 years, aircraft industry got many changes due to increased air traffic through 
various processes of technology that has decreased the noise levels and fuel consumption. 
Technology which  is new for use in aircraft engines like in a propulsion system design that involves 
advanced superconducting, cooled electric generators and motors in order to drive low noise electric 
fans which increases fuel efficiency.  
 
Recommendation & Conclusion  
Consumption of fuel and costs of current generation fuels like petrol etc. is a major problem of the 
aircraft industry. In total operating costs of aircrafts, cost of fuel constitutes the largest ratio. Many ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
164 organizations regulating aircraft industry and airp lane manufacturers are trying to find ways to 
reduce fuel consumption. These researches have also focused to reduce emission of greenhouse 
gases and emissions of those pollutants which can cause illness.  
 There is a huge research going on to find alternate  fuels, modify design to make aircrafts more 
fuel efficient. Next generation electric aircraft with new electric propulsion systems are in process to 
achieve a sustainable aviation. The main points which should be in mind while designing future 
aircrafts a re noise made at airports should be reduced, burn of fuel should be reduced and also 
reduced of emissions (both pollutants and greenhouse gasses). There is a lot to be found in this area 
to make future aircrafts more fuel efficient, pollution free and achi eve sustainable aviation.  
 
Reference s 
Daggett, D. L., Hendricks, R. C., Walther, R., &Corporan, E. (2008). Alternate fuels for use in 
commercial aircraft.  
Felder, J., Kim, H., & Brown, G. (2009, January). Turboelectric distributed propulsion engine cycle 
analysis for hybrid -wing -body aircraft. In  47th AIAA aerospace sciences meeting including 
the new horizons forum and aerospace exposition (p. 1132).   
Huang, H., Spadaccini, L. J., & Sobel, D. R. (2002, January). Fuel -cooled thermal management for 
advanced ae ro engines. In ASME Turbo Expo 2002: Power for Land, Sea, and Air (pp. 367 -
376). American Society of Mechanical Engineers.  
Kim, T., & Kwon, S. (2012). Design and development of a fuel cell -powered small unmanned 
aircraft.  International Journal of Hydrogen Energy , 37(1), 615 -622. 
Kyprianidis, K. G., Grönstedt, T., Ogaji, S. O., Pilidis, P., & Singh, R. (2011). Assessment of future 
aero-engine designs with intercooled and intercooled recuperated cores. Journal of 
Engineering for Gas Turbines and Power, 133(1) , 011701.  
Lee, J. J., Lukachko, S. P., Waitz, I. A., & Schafer, A. (2001). Historical and future trends in aircraft 
performance, cost, and emissions. Annual Review of Energy and the Environment, 26(1), 
167-200. 
Luongo, C. A., Masson, P. J., Nam, T., Mavris , D., Kim, H. D., Brown, G. V., ... & Hall, D. (2009). 
Next generation more -electric aircraft: a potential application for HTS 
superconductors.  IEEE Transactions on Applied Superconductivity , 19(3), 1055 -1068.  
Nygren, E., Aleklett, K., &Höök, M. (2009). Aviation fuel and future oil production 
scenarios.  Energy Policy , 37(10), 4003 -4010.  
Rosero, J. A., Ortega, J. A., Aldabas, E., & Romeral, L. A. R. L. (2007). Moving towards a more 
electric aircraft.  IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine , 22(3), 3 -9. 
Senzig, D. A., Fleming, G. G., &Iovinelli, R. J. (2009). Modeling of terminal -area airplane fuel 
consumption.  Journal of Aircraft , 46(4), 1089 -1093.  
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
165 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND FUTURE OF HUMANITY  
 
K.A. SUNDHAR  
B.Tech, Computer Science  
Email ID: Sundhar.2021.@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence (AI)?  
[1] It is the science and engineering of making intelligent machines, especially intelligent computer 
programs. It is related to the similar task of using computers to understand human i ntelligence, but 
AI does not have to confine itself to biologically observable methods. [2].Artificial Intelligence can 
be defined as the intelligence exhibited by the machines and programs that are created by humans to 
solve complex problems and scenarios .[3] Artificial intelligence is that activity devoted to making 
machines intelligent and intelligence is that quality that enables an entity to function appropriately 
and with foresight in its environment. [4] Artificial intelligence (AI) is defined as int elligence 
exhibited by an artificial entity to solve complex problems and such a system is generally assumed 
to be a computer or machine.  
 
History of AI  
[5] The beginnings of artificial intelligence are traced back to philosophy, fiction and imagination. 
[6] George Boole was the first person to describe a formal language for logical reasoning in 1897. 
The next breakthrough for AI came in 1936 when Alan M.Turing defined the Turning -machine. 
Warren McCulloch and Walter Pitts created the model of artificial n eurons in 1943 and in 1944 
J.Neumann and O.Morgenstern determined the theory of decision. Donald Hebb introduced value 
changing the rule for the connections of artificial neurons that gives the chance of learning. Marvin 
Minsky and Dean Edmonds created the  first neural computer in 1951. The term Artificial 
Intelligence was termed in the summer of 1956 by John McCarthy. This soon caught the attention of 
researchers and it was discussed at a conference in Dartmouth. John McCarthy was regarded as the 
father of  AI. McCarthy announced the LISP language for creating artificial intelligence software. 
Herbert Simon in 1965 stated that "Machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any 
work a man can do". But they realized that this wasn't the case after a few years, it is almost 
impossible to create an algorithm that can do everything a man can do. The meaning of AI has 
changed in recent years, it is now considered as an intelligent thing or agent which will help us do 
our work in a faster and easier way. I n 1970 first international joint conference on Artificial 
Intelligence was held in Washington, DC.  
 
Growth of AI  
[7] Artificial intelligence has been advancing rapidly in recent years in both the term of investment 
that went to it and also the outputs. The Economist has estimated that the number of AI -related 
companies has increased 26 times in 2017 than it was in 20 15. This increase was due to huge 
improvements in the technical capabilities of AI over the past years. But there was also concern 
about the fate of human workers. For example, Elon musk stated that "AI is a fundamental risk to 
the existence of human civil ization.[8]Artificial Intelligence can also be considered the 4th industrial 
revolution. Along with big data, AI has transformed all industries around the world.The systems 
which are programmed intelligence can outperform the deterministic system and are h ardcoded 
when it comes to real -world related problems in terms of both accuracy and efficiency.AI helps to 
solve the problems related to business and business analytics.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
166 AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[9] Artificial intelligence is capable of organizing pati ent treatment or routes better and also provides 
the physicians with the information that they need to make the best decision in health care and 
medicine. AI reduce the time taken to make the data into comparable form to just a matter of 
seconds which woul d have taken hours of calculating if it is done by humans. Unlike doctors, AI 
doesn't need any rest and the number of patients doesn't matter due to this it helps to improve 
medical care.[10] The increased awareness by the experts in health care has result ed in the 
development of the Z -DEMATEL (Z - number decision making trial and evaluation laboratory) 
technique. Z -number method increases the reliability of the expert's decision and also optimizes the 
fuzzy number which helps to improve the confidence of th e expert in the treatment of the patient. 
[11] Although the use of AI in healthcare will improve many things it is no panacea. [12]The 
treatment and diagnosis have been the focus of AI since at least the 1970s.MYCIN which was 
developed by Stanford for diag nosing blood -borne bacterial infections and other early rule -based 
systems showed promise for accurately detecting and treatment of the disease but they weren't 
clinically implemented. They weren't significantly better than human diagnosticians and the 
clinicians weren't properly trained to use the benefits and the medical records were poorly 
integrated.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[2] Expert systems are those machines that are programmed to have complete expertise in a precise 
area of interest. The y are programmed to solve the problem that may arise in those fields. These 
machines use data mining and statistical analysis to solve the problems through logical programs of 
yes-no questions. Once an artificial intelligence program is created it can be e asily transferred to 
other machines whereas passing a similar amount of knowledge to other humans is a time taking and 
costly process.[13] Artificial intelligence makes the process of production and manufacturing much 
more cost -efficient. [14] Modern manuf acturing and logistics systems are maintained by powerful 
computer networks. In these networks, enormous amount of data is continuously being generated by 
sensors, machines, systems, smart devices, and people. Together with Big data, AI has led to a new 
age called Industry 4.0 or Smart factory.[15] AI can be applied for various work such as quality 
inspection, optimizing the supply chain, fine -grained equipment monitoring and predictive 
maintenance, advanced robotics, generative design, augmenting human cap abilities, transportation, 
etc. 
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
[13] Artificial intelligence can be applied to identify the issues in systems and also can be 
programmed to detect security breaches. AI tools can be used to manage automated responses and 
control plans. [16] AI surveillance includes smart city platforms, facial recognition systems and 
smart policing. These help us to keep society safe, prevent crimes and respond to emergencies. 
Smart cities have sensors that transmit real -time data to improve  service delivery, public safety and 
city management. These cities have incorporated facial recognition systems and police cameras that 
are connected to intelligent command centers.[17] Artificial intelligence has huge possibilities to 
optimize the way we fight against crimes and strengthen our national security. When there is an 
enormous amount of data and the need for quick decision -making AI can be of great use and may 
also lead to success. When the security forces are creating plans for multiple scenari os and 
performing various analyzes after going through a huge amount of information is a time taking Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
167 process. But AI has the possibility to drastically reduce the time required for this process and thus 
providing us most successful plans and also there are  capable of detecting the flaws in the plans that 
are already made.[18] AI and Cyber security havea lot of intersecting points. AI technologies, such 
as deep learning can be used in cyber security for constructing smart models for finding malware, 
intrusio n detection and threat  intelligence sense.  
 
Artif icial intelligence in Education  
Artificial intelligence is the most important technological force of the first half of the century.AI has 
the potential to transform virtually every industry including education. [19] For the past 25 years, 
The Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIED) community has been focusing mainly on solving the 
two-sigma problem by creating a program that is as effective as human one -on-one coaching. There 
have been significant advances that have increased the efficiencies and also reduced the time 
required for learning. Due to requirements of 21st -century skills such as the general learning skills 
and competencies such as metacognition, critical thinking, and collaboration.[20] AI at first took the 
form of computer and computer -related technologies, transitioning to web -based and online 
intelligent education systems, and ultimately with the help of embedded computer systems and other 
technologies the humanoid and web -based chatbo ts were used to perform instructor's duties and 
functions with a human instructor or even independently. With the help of this system, the instructor 
was able to review and grade the students more effectively and efficiently and also can achieve a 
higher q uality of teaching. As these systems are based on machine learning and adaptability they can 
customize and personalize the course for a specific student's needs thereby improving the quality of 
learning and helping them understand in which they are lacking . Though AI in education has a lot of 
merits it still also has demerits. [21] Our passion for technology in education has a huge impact on 
the teacher -student relationship and also student -student relationships. The education is becoming 
more and more of I -It than I -Thou causing poor socializing skills. In the process of "Learnification", 
the teachers are understood as just mere facilitators rather than a person who has expertise in the 
field.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[22] As the technology evolves the risks, thre ats and vulnerabilities also evolve and to prevent the 
exploitations of these, foolproof end -to-end(E2E) security becomes a vital concern. The AI and ML 
play a vital role in modelling, designing and automating efficient security protocols against a wide 
range of threats. AI and ML have already proven their ability to higher accuracy. [4] Machine 
learning a branch of artificial intelligence has proven to be a strong method in predicting and 
analyzing the given set of data. With the help of machine learning, we can predict the weather with 
more than 90% accuracy. This plays a vital role in agriculture industries where the weather forecast 
is an important condition. [4]AI robots have become common in many heavy industries. These 
robots make production very effi cient and much faster than before. As these robots don't get tired 
from working, it overcomes the inherent disadvantage of humans and also, they help the workspace 
safer as these robots are employed in jobs that might be dangerous for humans. [23] The use of 
artificial intelligence in the medical field is increasing continuously. It not only increases the 
efficiency and professional level; it also avoids medical errors. In developing countries, the 
difference between the health care service in the urban and  rural areas are huge. But by 
implementing AI medical techniques the difference can be reduced and also by training the health 
worker to use AI medical techniques we can compensate for the lack of physicians. [4] One of the ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
168 major advantages of artificial i ntelligence is that its decisions are based on facts rather than 
emotions. Even after our utmost efforts, it is a well -known fact that human decisions are always 
affected negatively by our emotions. Easier spreading of knowledge. Once an artificial mind is 
trained for something, it can be very easilycopied to the others reducing the time wasted in 
otherwise passing on knowledge to other humans through training. AI has improved the gaming 
industry. One of the most commonly known applications of AI in the gami ng industry is its use in 
chess. AI is also being used in Microsoft Xbox 360 ‟ s Kinect for body motion detection. Expert 
Systems are machines that are trained to have total expertise in specific areas of interest. They are 
developed to solve problems in ni che areas. These systems use statistical analysis and data mining to 
solve these problems by deducing the solutions through a logical flow of yes -no questions. [24] 
Artificial intelligence provides advantages of permanency and is reliable. Artificial intel ligence 
increase cost -effectiveness in many fields. AI programs are capable of dealing with both qualitative 
and quantitative data, a feature that most strictly analytical methods lack. AI can reduce the need for 
personnel time since the AI will take care of the decision -making process and AI tools can facilitate 
faster decision making by automating the decision -making process.AI tools can be applied to 
identify the security breaches, and in the development and management of automated response and 
control p lans.AI can be used to manage the transportation system and also for the development of 
the system.  
 
Challenges or Dis -advantages of AI  
[25] One of the main disadvantages of AI is the cost of maintenance and repair. The software must 
be continuously updat ed to keep it useful and to meet the requirement of the time. In case of any 
problem, the cost for repair could be huge and maybe even need to do redo the entire program to 
meet the requirements. [26] The use of AI has many advantages but still, it can't c ompletely replace 
teachers. The robots not only don't have emotions they are not able to closely monitor the 
personalized improvement of the students in the class. Education is not only about teaching facts it 
is also about the teaching discipline, manner and many others which may include emotional support 
from teachers which is impossible to provide by an AI robot. [27] The biggest threat of AI is that it 
could be weaponized and could be used be for mass destruction rather than for the improvement of 
the lives of the people for which it is intended. AI can shake up armed conflicts as nuclear weapons 
did. The countries like US, Russia, China all have invested a lot in AI for military purposes. The AI 
is not a threat itself; it depends on how we use it. It ca n be considered as a double -sided sword, 
whether it does good or harm depends on the person who has it. This makes us in a constant state of 
fear as we don't know when who might use it for the wrong purpose. [24] The industrial and digital 
revolutions have  had both merits and demerits. This revolution has affected our society and life. AI 
has made the younger generation lazy and more dependent on technology. Human jobs have been 
affected due to the AI robots taking their place which caused more unemployment . The potential of 
the AI program completely depends on the creativity of the programmer. [28] The implementation 
of AI in healthcare is done by not only AI, it includes ML (Machine learning) and DL (deep 
learning). The drawbacks of the implementation of t his technology are that it's not transparent and 
lacks interpretability. [4] The responses from AI lacks creativity and is not able to explain the logic 
and reasoning behind a certain decision.Due to the inability of reasoning for a decision, if there is a  
malfunction, we may end up wrong decision which says that if we rely on AI blindly it may lead to 
problems rather than the solution for the problem. [29]Even though they are more efficient in doing Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
169 work they can‘t replace human connections that create tea mwork. Since they can‘t form bonds with 
humans there is no possibility of teamwork. Machines can perform only that task which they are 
programmed to, if any malfunction happens it will lead to a huge backdrop and also the cost 
repairing it huge.  
 
Conclusio n 
AI is something humans have been dreaming about for a long time. It is finally becoming a reality, 
even though we haven‘t unlocked its full potential yet we are still able to reap incredible value from 
AI and its related fields. Everything in the univers e has its merits and demerits which goes the same 
for AI. We can‘t classify AI as only good or bad for humans. The AI is like a double -edged sword, 
though it has a lot of benefits it still has the same number of drawbacks. It is capable of improving 
human life ona huge scale but if it is used in the wrong way it also has the potential to end human 
civilization itself. AI has improved the cost and work efficiency to a huge amount but it also caused 
unemployment as humans are being replaced by robots and mach ines.As AI is continuously taking 
over one field and then another, we need to have the ability to code or our jobs will be replaced by 
the robots in future. AI is created for making our easier and comfortable but in the end, it may make 
our life too comfor table which will lead to a lazy lifestyle without much physical activity. Due to 
less physical activity along with our worsening food style(Junk foods), we may get a lot of health 
problems in future. I think at present AI isn‘t at full potential but when i t reaches it, the AI might 
become the single toolthat can do everything. When it has reached its full potential, we should our 
best in making sure that it doesn‘t fall into wrong hands that way we can enjoy a comfortable and 
improved lifestyle, if we forgo t to protect AI and it falls into the wrong hand then the result might be 
devastating.  
 
References  
Bartoletti, I. (2019, June). AI in healthcare: Ethical and privacy challenges. In  Conference on 
Artificial Intelligence in Medicine in Europe  (pp. 7 -10). Springer, Cham.  
Benko, A., & Lányi, C. S. (2009). History of artificial intelligence. In  Encyclopedia of Information 
Science and Technology, Second Edition  (pp. 1759 -1762). IGI Global.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvan tages Of Artificial 
Intelligence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53. 
Carriço, G. (2018). The EU and artificial intelligence: A human -centred perspective.  European 
View , 17(1), 29 -36 
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review.  Ieee Access , 8, 
75264 -75278.  
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence applications to c ritical transportation issues, 6(3), 360 -375. 
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues, 6(3), 360 -375. 
Crandall, D. J. (2019). Artifi cial intelligence and manufacturing.  Smart Factories: Issues of 
Information Governance , 10-16. ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
170 Davenport, T., & Kalakota, R. (2019). The potential for artificial intelligence in healthcare.  Future 
healthcare journal , 6(2), 94.  
Feldstein, S. (2019).  The glo bal expansion of AI surveillance  (Vol. 17). Washington, DC: Carnegie 
Endowment for International Peace. [13]Radulov, N. (2019). Artificial intelligence and 
security. Security 4.0.  Security & Future , 3(1), 3 -5. 
Furman, J., & Seamans, R. (2019). AI and the E conomy. Innovation policy and the economy, 19(1), 
161-191. 
Ghimire, A., Thapa, S., Jha, A. K., Adhikari, S., & Kumar, A. (2020, October). Accelerating 
business growth with big data and artificial intelligence. In  2020 Fourth International 
Conference on I -SMAC (IoT in Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud)(I -SMAC)  (pp. 441 -
448). IEEE.  
Guilherme, A. (2019). AI and education: the importance of teacher and student relations.  AI & 
society , 34(1), 47 -54 
Guo, J., & Li, B. (2018). The application of medical artificia l intelligence technology in rural areas 
of developing countries.  Health equity , 2(1), 174 -181. 
Haider, N., Baig, M. Z., & Imran, M. (2020). Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in 5G 
Network Security: Opportunities, advantages, and future research  trends.  arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2007.04490.  
Hsu, W. C. J., Liou, J. J., & Lo, H. W. (2021). A group decision -making approach for exploring 
trends in the development of the healthcare industry in Taiwan.  Decision Support 
Systems , 141, 113447.  
Li, J. H. (2018) . Cyber security meets artificial intelligence: a survey.  Frontiers of Information 
Technology & Electronic Engineering , 19(12), 1462 -1474  
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?  
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence i n healthcare –a review.  
Nilsson, N. J. (2009). The quest for artificial intelligence. Cambridge University Press.  
Osipov, S. S., & Ulimova, N. V. (2013). ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF 
AI. SCIENCE AND WORLD , 77. 
Radulov, N. (2019). Artificial intelligence and security. Security 4.0.  Security & Future , 3(1), 3 -5. 
Roll, I., & Wylie, R. (2016). Evolution and revolution in artificial intelligence in education.  
International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education , 26(2), 582 -599 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Ap plications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016], 5(6).  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016], 5(6).  
Tao, B., Díaz, V., & Guerra, Y. (2019). Artificial Intelligence and Education, Challenges and 
Disadvantages for the Teacher.  Arctic Journal , 72(12), 30 -50. 
Thaler, S., & Menkovski, V. (2019). The role of deep learning in improving healthcare. In  Data 
Science for Healthcare  (pp. 75 -116). Springer , Cham.  
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
171 INTEGRATING TECHNOLOGY IN AGRICULTURE  
 
PRATEEK GARG  
 
MADESH  YERUKOLA  
 
ASHWIN TOMS  
Email ID: prateek.garg2018@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Abstract  
RFID or Radio frequency identification is a very secure method of identifying and channelising information 
related to agricultural products and devices through a small tag attached to them. It can develop agriculture 
tremendously by sharing real time data about agricultural devices like temperature or soil nutrient level 
sensor, status of all automatic agricult ural devices.  Study and research in biotechnology can lead to further 
increase in gross agricultural yield , quality of yield. It can help manipulate the biologi cal systems fo  better 
results. The use of IOT to integrate all devices to essentially improve certain aspects like perceiving 
information  about plant and its environment, transportation of goods and application of machines by use of 
technology like Wifi, gprs, Zigbee, Bluetooth etc.. to convert smooth efficient and hassle free production of 
crops h as been discussed in this paper.  Wireless Sensor Networks(WSN) are basically use of sensors to 
precisely  monitor conditions of the field and to predict weather conditions and to suitably adopt its operations. 
All of these together constitute a field wherei n great innovation can be brought about.  Farmer fields schools 
(FFS) are another thought discussed in this paper which can be used to further extend the knowledge of 
scientific agriculture amongst farmers. Another aspect of the digital world that is Inform ation technology can 
be further used to Improve logistics of farm produce, competetivepricing , product user base and marketplace 
.beyond all a fairer margin of profit for the farmers can be ensured through the direct contact of farmers to 
the users throug h IT. Concept of Precision Agriculture is one which requires further perfection but promises 
ample of quality produce  enough to satisfy the growing population. It utilises the idea of WSN by using web of 
underground nodal  sensors. Lastly the technology of Nano particles is the other non - conventional method 
which can bring about huge changes in the agricultural economy if properly researched upon. The use of 
small particles to only affect the required regions with low levels of dosing of fertilizers or nutr ients is one of 
the main objectives of nano particle technology. It is highly likely that one of the above methods can change 
the course of current agriculture to greater heights hence it is highly adviced to encourage research in  the 
above fields.   
Keywords: RFID, WSN (Wireless Sensor Networks), IOT, Biotechnology, Nano technology, PA (Precision 
Agriculture).  
 
Introduction  
Leveraging technology is the application of relevant scientific knowledge for practical purposes in 
specific industries. Use of modern age technologies in fields of IT and Biotech, as well as practices, 
tools and machines to enhance and improve the yield p roduced and to further reduce labour and time 
invested can be called agriculture technology. This also includes leveraging information technology, 
sensors, big data, cloud services, drones, hardware and software for innovative farming practices.  
 It is im portant to look into this matter because of humongous challenges as well as opportunities 
in an increasingly interconnected global economy. The relevance of talking and studying about 
technology and agriculture in our society is in order to motivate young minds who find interest in 
developing technology for the agriculture sector, but who may be potentially discouraged by a ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
172 society which sees very little or no worth in agriculture as a whole; for making money or earning a 
living. Being a citizen of the worl d, it's our responsibility to spread the awareness of the hardships 
faced by our farmers and to help them get acquainted with the knowledge and technology to bring 
about a change in the situation. It is a collective responsibility of mankind to keep up the  production 
of the necessary daily food for their nourishment. Therefore, thinking about innovation in 
agriculture is a big deal, being a win -win situation for both the farmers and consumers.  
 
Literary Survey  
[1] RFID means Radio frequency Identification. It is used in improving many agricultural processes. 
It uses radio waves to interpret information stored on a tag attached to an object. RFID makes use of 
sensors for wide range of applications. RFID provides a plethora of applications for productive 
outpu t in agriculture. RFID is used for trace ability and monitoring live stock. By using RFID, we 
can find weather conditions and we can produce better yield. It is new technology which was 
brought to produce better production and yields without any loss. RFID  has most of use with sensors 
and some new tools which are outfitted with sensors. RFID has good market and it's use is very 
commercial. Using RFID in agriculture has brought a new revolution in agricultural industry which 
was never expected. [2] Biotechno logy is coming very handy in agriculture. The knowledge of 
biotechnology can lead to better yield, productivity, product quality and export diversification. 
Biotechnology driven improvements are enhancing the quality of input and output in agriculture 
related activities. It is the manipulation of various biological processes for industrial purposes and 
other things but now it is also being used in the field of agriculture. It is commonly termed as 
Agritech. The new technology offers greater chances for incr eased growth in areas of income, 
nutrition, etc. The new tools of genomic study are increasing the insight of biological system and 
also how to manipulate them for better results. The research in molecular breading, genetic 
mapping, changing of plant archi tecture and bio -safety has tremendous potential to impact the 
quality of crops. The improvements in global agriculture needs creative science as well as 
development of plant -derived products with high returns. This paper discusses about growth of 
tradition al agricultural and industrial sectors, including natural resource -based sectors. [3] IOT 
means Internet of things. IOT has wide range of application on agriculture. There are three layers in 
IOT. They are perceive, transportation and application. By using  perceive layer they will acquire the 
information of which crop should be done on that land, conditions of soil and conditions of 
environment in that area. Transportation means in this we use WiFi network and GPRS, Bluetooth 
connections for intelligent net working methods. The use of WiFi and Bluetooth is multidimensional 
information fusion. There is wide range of application of IOT in agriculture industry. Those  are the 
three layers which are used in modern agriculture to put IOT forward. [4] Wireless sensor networks 
(WSN) has become an important part in tremendous growth in field of agriculture. It is new 
technology and ideal candidate for solutions to various problems that include, agricultural issues, 
monitoring of health. It brings with itself a ple thora of knowledgeable aspects of automation control, 
storage of information digital network transmission, etc.. Its development has helped in controlling 
and monitoring of greenhouse parameter in agriculture. In Precision Agriculture (PA), different 
metho ds and techniques are used to monitor the necessary environmental parameter for particular 
crop. Because of uneven distribution of rain water, wireless sensor networks help to meet the 
necessary requirements of different crops. The farmers who are not acqu ainted with any scientific 
knowledge bear loss due to wrong techniques and predictions of weather. The various types of Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
173 sensors and Programmable Systems on Chip technology (PSoC) have made agriculture much easy. 
[5] FFS means farmer field schools and CIAL‘ S means local agricultural research committees. 
Those are the two things which are used in promoting integrated decision and making innovation in 
agriculture to help farmers. It is mostly used by Asian farmers and it is mainly developed in Asia. In 
Asia th ere are around 200 million rice farmers. FFS has four principles of IPM. They are to grow a 
good crop, protect from natural enemies like pests and insects, to check field regularly and to 
become best by participating in FFS. FFS requires best support from national wide. FFS believe that 
future development will be based on this. These FFS should develop everywhere around the world 
and should bring better output than before. [6] The agri -food sector is prone to various global 
challenges which requires the sup port of information technologies (IT). It provides a platform to 
help agri -food sector to cope up with challenges and pave way for development and advancement of 
integrated digital environments. The technology advancement can be difficult to predict due to  lack 
of understanding or knowledge or social factors. IT helps in reorganisation, integration of agri -food 
sector and its possible future outcomes. [7] PA means precision agriculture. PA needs tools to 
evaluate the growth of world and it needs a series of  practices. Increase in the population around the 
world has unfavourable effects on the agriculture. Because need of more food for this much 
population is forcing farmers to use various pests and chemicals to enhance and better the 
productivity. This is af fecting the farming lands. Demand for food is encouraging production and 
throwing into new generation known as precision agriculture. In PA, wireless sensor nodes are being 
used. These sensor nodes gives us hint of moisture in soil and predicts the tempera ture. By knowing 
these things they will practice farming in a manner which produces higher productivity. This is the 
use of precision agriculture(PA). [8] The 21st century might turn out to be a time of transition of 
agriculture into water efficient and in telligent mechanical agriculture along with other desired 
qualities like high quality, high quantity and pollution free agriculture. Digitalization of agriculture 
can become the major factor which can help to bring about such a change in the agricultural 
scenario. The essence of agricultural digitization is to digitize every aspect (crop production, animal 
husbandry, aquatic products industry, forestry etc.)  and every step/process of agriculture (like from 
sowing to harvesting and storage for crop productio n). Agricultural digitalization has been 
developing rapidly in the last decade especially in the developed countries. For example; in Japan, 
computers are being widely used in farming for accessing weather forecast reports, insect utilization, 
agricultural  operations and product processing. In the united states the farmers have access to huge 
information databases of the governmental information centres, research institutes, libraries and 
agricultural universities. This helps them to get latest data about c urrent market prices for their 
produce, new agricultural equipment, latest farming techniques, seed melioration , prevention and 
treatment of plant diseases and pests and so on… The concept of IoT i.e. interlinking of all the 
devices to a single network to  provide a smooth and hassle free efficient coordinated execution of a 
process can further help the farmers to get all their concerns cleared by just a single integrated 
software which can provide them with suggestions over best crop for their geographic c onditions , 
amount and type of pesticide to be used, best type of farming cycle for their geographical terrain etc. 
This can be further combined with suitable machinery to enable automation of farmlands through 
sensors which detect weed, detect crops and t heir need for water i.e. if the soil has become too dry in 
combination with precision engineering of machines which can burrow, sow, harvest and store 
produce. [9] New methods of enhancing crop growth and quality of produce keep on being explored 
and one o f the many inventions which can improve the art of agriculture a lot is Nano agriculture. ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
174 Nano agriculture involves the use of small particles of size of the order of a few hundred nanometres 
called nano particles which can be used to sense and release cer tain substances on demand to certain 
specific target areas. For example, nano particles can be used to apply fertilizers or pesticides to 
crops instead of conventional spraying of fertilizers, which will ensure even and correct levels of 
chemicals across t he field. Nano particles will also help prevent crop diseases by sensing anomalies 
and ejecting the remedy for it even before we can observe it on the macro scale. It also supports 
sustainable agriculture immensely because normally pesticides deteriorate t he quality of soil by 
formation of oxidative stress on the soil and hence polluting it with oxygen free radicles. Nano 
particles can also be used as a mediator for plant gene modification for favourable changes in their 
genetic structure to improve resista nce to diseases and to improve quality of produces and similar 
favourable traits. Nano particles also are used to make carbon nano tubes which can be used to 
deliver required molecules to a germinating seed ensuring its healthy growth. [10] Information 
Technology is nearly being used in all the fields and it has been high time that it may also be 
introduced to the agriculture in developing countries. It can be used as a platform for peasants to 
learn about the current market prices and condition of the agri cultural economy. IT can be used to 
avail the latest and greatest technological machines for to the farms of the farmers. These can be 
employed to give notifications and updates about climatic conditions to the farmers.  They can be 
used as a platform for c ultivators  to trade and pool their resources amongst the other farming 
community to  reduce costs and to save time. They can then utilise IT to send information and status 
of their farmlands to remote agricultural research centres for improvement and advanc ement in 
methods of farming. It can also be utilised by farmers to clear their queries about non -conventional 
farming methods at remote agricultural help centres. It can be used for big data services enabling 
farmers to access various government databases and university databases helping them get the 
knowledge to farm more efficiently and to find buyers to sell their buyers at the right price.  
 
Findings  
Technology leverage in agriculture provides a three -pronged approach to better productivity, 
efficiency a nd effectiveness of farming practices. Firstly, Information Technology enables 
innovation through RFID devices, Wireless Sensor Networks as well as through IoT and 
digitalization of agriculture to provide better information for decision making and better 
management of agriculture. Such enablement is not only at technology level, but also considers 
other factors such as social, economic, geological and climatic factors. In addition, it encompasses 
integrating various different parameters and factors to provi de a holistic solution to significantly 
improve and innovate agriculture practices and outputs.  
 Secondly, biotechnology and nano -technology driven improvements are helping improve quality 
of both inputs for agriculture as well as outputs of agriculture an d related activities. It focuses on 
research based improvements of crops, especially on quality and yields through continuous efforts 
on developing better and more resilient strains of crops.  
 Thirdly and lastly, the technology advancements are supported b y both identifying and 
implementing better tools, practices and mechanisms. Practices such as Precision Agriculture and 
initiatives such as Farmer fields schools and local agricultural research committees are enabling 
efforts to improve agriculture substan tially. Moreover, it requires all stakeholders such as farmers, 
public organizations and private enterprises to work and collaborate together and share best 
practices and learnings globally.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
175 Recommendation and Conclusion  
From the above detailed summary of the topic ‗‘ Integrating technology in agriculture ‗‘, we can 
conclude that integrating technology in agriculture is very productive and useful. By using RFID, 
FFS, CIALS, IOT and PA in agriculture brings a drastic change in agriculture industry. RFID, PA 
and IOT are technical methods which are used to develop agriculture and FFS and CIALS are non -
technical methods used for development of agriculture. The technology development in one country 
should help other countries to develop in  their agriculture and i t removes boundaries between the 
countries. FFS is the most useful method to bring awareness in farmers about farming. These are the 
process which increase the productivity in the agriculture by using technology in agriculture.  
 
References  
Cox, Sidney. "Information technology: the global key to precision agriculture and sustainability." 
Computers and electronics in agriculture 36.2 -3 (2002): 93 -111.  
DD Chaudhary, SP Nayse, LM Waghmare, ‖Application of Wireless Sensor Networks for 
greenhouse  parameter control in precision agriculture‖ International Journal of Wireless & 
Mobile Networks (IJWMN) Vol 3 (1), 140 -149,2011  
Dong, X., Vuran, M. C., & Irmak, S. (2013). Autonomous precision agriculture through integration 
of wireless underground senso r networks with center pivot irrigation systems. Ad Hoc 
Networks, 11(7), 1975 -1987.  
Gerhard Schiefer, ―New technologies and their impacts on agriculture, environment and food 
industry‖ Proceedings of he EFITA 2003 Conference 5 (9), 2003  
He young, Niepengcheng, LiuFei Translations of the Chinese Society for agriculture. 
Machienry44(10),216 -226,2013  
JH Dodds, R Oritz, JH Crouch, V Mahalasksmi, KK Sharma, ‖Biotechnology the gene revolution 
and proprietary technology in Agriculture‖ IP Strategy Today 2 , 2001  
Ruiz -Garcia, L., &Lunadei, L. (2011). The role of RFID in agriculture: Applications, limitations and 
challenges. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 79(1), 42 -50. 
Srilatha, B. "Nanotechnology in agriculture." Journal of Nanomedicine and Nanot echnology 2.7 
(2011).  
Warnick, B. K., & Thompson, G. W. (2007). Barriers, Support, and Collaboration: A Comparison of 
Science and Agriculture Teachers' Perceptions regarding Integration of Science into the 
Agricultural Education Curriculum. Journal of Agri cultural Education, 48(1), 75 -85. 
Yan-e, Duan. "Design of intelligent agriculture management information system based on IoT." 
Intelligent Computation Technology and Automation (ICICTA), 2011 International 
Conference on . Vol. 1. IEEE, 2011.  
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
176 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE -THE FUTURE  
 
HAMZA KHAN  
B. Tech Computer Science  
Email ID: hamza.khan2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence?  
[1] It is combination of science and engineering which makes intelligent machines,specially 
computer programs which are  intelligent. It is used to understand human intelligence,but artificial 
intelligence does not have to copy the methods which are biologically observable.  
 Artificial intelligence is the field of the computer science which is trying to build powerful 
intelligence into computer systems.  
 [2] Artificial intelligence is the combination of the three academic disciplines which are 
psychology (cognitive modelling), philosophy (philosophy of mind), and computer science. These 
three disciplines belongs together for  so many purposes but it‘s difficult task to join them together. 
Psychology and philosophy got split up in the late nineteenth century. As a branch of mathematics 
computer science grew up. Computers are required as tools for modelling of mental states and 
processes. There are lot of practical application of artificial intelligence which contains computer 
systems design which can perceive, learn, understand, solve problems, making of plans, 
conversation in natural language. These systems are already in use f or medical diagnosis, 
identification of ships from satellite pictures, prospection of minerals, science training and 
translation of the language. With the help of artificial intelligence computers role changes from 
something useful to something essential. The main aim of artificial intelligence is to make computer 
to perform task that humans are good at.  
 
History of Artificial Intelligence  
[3] In its early days, artificial intelligence is based on friction, imagination, philosophy. AI is 
influenced by the e arly inventions in electronics, engineering and many more.There are early 
achievement which include work in the solving of the problem including basic work in learning, 
representation of knowledge, and inference as well as demonstration programs in languag e 
understanding, theorem proving, associative memory, knowledge -based systems.The history of 
artificial intelligence is filled with demonstrations, possibilities, and promise.  
 [4] The birth of artificial intelligence was in the summer of 1956. It‘s term w as coined by John 
McCarthy. At that time subject got its first attention by researchers. It was also discussed at some 
conference at Dartmouth. After one year, the first problem solver was tested. The statement of 
Herbert simon was that machine would be ca pable of work done by man in twenty years.  
 [5]After some year scientists realised that creation of such algorithm which can do any task is 
impossible. Now Artificial intelligence has a new meaning which is creation of new agents to do our 
works easier and  faster. In 1950 there is suggestion from Alan Turing that definition for deciding 
whether software is intelligent or not. In the theory of Alan turing, we can measure software 
intelligent behaviour like human intellectual efficiency. The software is intel ligent when human 
being don‘t know whether a person is texting with human or of software.  
 
 Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
177 Growth of Artificial Intelligence  
[6] In few decades artificial intelligence has grown a lot. It became part of life of people living in 
modern society. It helped world in many ways from innovation to health care.AI made transformed 
business environment completely  
 [7] AI deployed in the goods production and services increased economic growth and income 
shares.  
 [8] All types of companies started implementing artifi cial intelligence. AI help in labour cost 
reduction. It also has improved the productivity of industries. It solved many problems of society 
like problems of science, government etc.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare Appliances  
[9] Pressure sensor dev ices has large application in personal electronic devices and industrial 
monitoring and pressure sensors are good contender for upliftment of science and technology in our 
modern society. Flexible pressure made from organic materials has the unique advanta ge of 
flexibility and it is also low cost. It has emerged as highly active field because of their encouraging 
application in artificial intelligence systems and health care devices which are wearable. The 
electrical sensing techniquesand organic electronic s are quickly moving forward and they have 
contributed a lot in development of flexible sensors. It has the advantage of very excellent 
flexibility, cost effective, and it is compatible with large area processing techniques. Many flexible 
sensors are made from organic materials and it has been fabricated .The sensing capacities of 
flexible sensor can even surpass human skin. The application of pressure sensors has application of 
mobile biomonitoring in medical diagnostics and in health care. Flexible pressu re sensor from 
organic material gives potential opportunity for development of excellent application.  
 [10] Artificial intelligence is the part of computer science which imitate human psychological 
functions. It brought standard shift in the medical field due to the presence of increment in 
healthcare data and increase in analytic techniques. Recently artificial intelligence has surpassed 
human being performance in various field of medical. By the use of analytical techniques, artificial 
intelligence is cap able of preventing, detection, diagnosis, and treatment of wide range of diseases. 
The use of artificial intelligence is  growing rapidly in medical field. Artificial intelligence helps in 
treatment management and diagnosis. There is creation of tension of Artificial intelligence which is 
surpassing of human tasks and ability. Many research paper showed that in future artificial 
intelligence has the capacity to support judgement of human, aid in clinical disease and increase in 
treatment efficiency. Artifici al intelligence is used in many health care places in the world and it has 
made life of patients and doctors easy. It makes simple by performing important and complex task in 
no time and at very less cost.  
 [11] Artificial intelligence in healthcare can be  used for inspection of patients, making patients 
record more well organised. It can also be used to monitor disease and aiding of diagnosis, assisting 
in surgical processes. It can also offer mental therapy to the patients. Artificial intelligence helps i n 
scheduling patients, billing., staffing optimization, protocols creations, assertion of image quality, 
reduction of dose of radiation, and interpretation of  images. These are the things we can do with 
artificial intelligence in radiology. We should not f ear from artificial intelligence as it will not 
replace human beings. Artificial intelligence should be welcomed for its capability to improve and 
prolong human lives.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
178  [12] Technology of wearable are the emerging tools of personal gadgets. Apart from bein g 
fashionable and with advance hardware technologies like communication modules and networking. 
Wearable device has capability to boost artificial intelligence with variety of valuable data. Artificial 
intelligence techniques like supervised, unsupervised,  semi -supervised and reinforcement learning. 
These are already in use to carry out various tasks. The application of artificial intelligence in 
wearable is in sport, industry, and medical purposes. Sports  application are used to give better 
experience duri ng workout to users.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Manufacturing and Production  
[13] Powerful computing networks supports modern manufacturing and logistics systems. In these 
networks plenty of data are being generated continuously by sensors, machines, systems, smart 
devices, and peoples. Big data are being analysed faster, broadly, deeper than ever before by the rise 
of computational capabilities. The value of artificial intelligence are redefines by these advance 
technology and opened new age known as industry 4.0 or the smart factory. Advance cognitive 
computing and deep learning m ethods had started to find application in the manufacturing systems 
for automated visual inspections, fault detection, and maintenance. There are so many active 
stronger learning methods to the material handling systems and production scheduling. Industrie s 
are trying to convert the real -time data into decision which are actionable.  
 [14] New revolution of technology and industry are gaining momentum. It is believed that new 
era of internet and artificial intelligence specified omnipresent networks, datadr ivenness, shared 
services, cross - border integration, automatic intelligence, and mass innovation is coming. The rapid 
fusion and development of new artificial intelligence technologies along with internet technologies , 
new generation information technolo gies, new energy technologies, material technology, and 
biotechnology are essential parts of this new era, which will enable changing transformations of 
means, models, well being, and ecosystems in terms of the application of the economy of nation as 
well as nation security. The manufacturing industry is the backbone of nation economy, people‘s 
livelihood, and national security . There is game changing transformation in terms of manufacturing  
models , manufacturing approaches and its approaches. In current scenario the internet, existence of 
sensors, arrival of big data, development of e -commerce are getting popular. There is rise of 
information community, and interconnection of fusion of data and knowledge with the society, 
physical space, and cyber phase. These emergence of new technology allow new phase for the 
Artificial intelligence.  
 [15] The internet based swarm intelligence, technology -oriented human machine hybrid 
augmented intelligence are the main intelligence of artificial intelligence 2.O. The ra pid evolution of 
smart cities, intelligent medical facilities, smart transportation, smart logistics, smart robots, self 
driving cars, smartphones, intelligent toys, smart communities, intelligent economy and many more 
provides huge driving force and marke t demand for development of artificial intelligence and its 
application. It is believed that intelligent manufacturing is the new manufacturing model. The new 
models are internet based, service oriented, collaborative, customizable , flexible, and internet  
manufacturing system which is socialised to provide production and services to users. The new form 
of intelligent manufacturing is the intelligent manufacturing ecology with the quality of omnipresent 
interconnection, cross border integration, autonomous intelligence, data drivenness, and innovation 
in mass.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
179  There is new mean of intelligent manufacturing which are human -machine integrated smart 
manufacturing systems which features digitalisation, Internet of things, virtualisation , service, 
collaboration , customization, flexibility and intelligence. If the application of these models, forms, 
means are deeply integrated then it forms an ecosystem of intelligent manufacturing.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Security and Surveillance  
[16] There are greater pos sibilities to make best use of Artificial intelligence in fighting against 
crimes and to make national security stronger. Artificial intelligence can bring success in the need 
for quick decision making and circumstances of unthinkable accumulation of data.  Process like 
intelligence, counterintelligence, forensic science, counteracting organised crime, quick processing 
of available data, drafting of decision, creation of plans and multivariation of circumstances, 
analysis are very time consuming. By the use of artificial intelligence can only reduce time and in 
result increasing possibilities for detection, prevention and restrain crime.  
 [17]There are lot of application of artificial intelligence for security of nation in United States 
and other parts of wor ld. There are lot of application of artificial intelligence for national security. 
The applications are cyber security, information security, diplomacy, homeland security, defence. 
This is not only the complete list of  possible application of artificial in telligence.  
 [18] Cyber surveillance is less labour intensive as compared to human surveillance method 
which it has replaced. The increase in use of machine learning can grow the trend of artificial 
intelligence. Researchers at Microsoft and Pacific Northw est National Laboratory have revealed a 
technique to use neural network and generative adversarial network for the automatic production of 
malicious inputs and find which inputs will lead to the discovery of security related vulnerabilities. 
In traditional  method, those type of inputs are tested by randomly modifying the non - malicious 
input. Militaries all around the earth are assimilating robotics and autonomous systems into their 
forces. Artificial intelligence and machine learning will enable systems to  tackle more difficult and 
challenging tasks in large environment. In combat operations, the robots, swarms and autonomous 
system has the capability of increasing the pace of fight. Artificial intelligence can also give more 
power to the advance sensors an d communication. AI can help in Situational awareness by use od 
small robotic sensors which can be used to collect data, Artificial Intelligence sensors senses and 
processes data which could help in better understanding of data.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in  Education  
[19] Artificial intelligence is the techy force of this century, and it will make all industry advance 
directly or indirectly. Huge amount of money are invested by government and businesses for 
application and lot of start -ups are being funded.  
 [20] Artificial intelligence supports student -support chatbots, student writing analysis, intelligent 
agents in game based environment, tutor facilitated by Artificial intelligence by which student can 
do their own learning, analytic learning. It facilita tes one -on-one student interaction with the 
computers.  
 [21] AI will allow creation of robots which will uplift learning experience of students from 
childhood education. Cobots in collaboration with teachers can be applied to teach daily tasks with 
greater  efficiency. It can also be used in teaching spelling and pronunciation.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
180  [22] The online education platform has transformed a lot from providing materials online to 
study, download, and do assignment to pass to include student friendly, brilliant system w hich can 
analyse student and teachers behaviour.  
 [23] Artificial intelligence provides adaptive learning personalisation and learning styles, expert 
system and intelligent tutoring systems. AI is the future component of education.  
 
Advantages of Artificia l Intelligence  
[24] Artificial intelligence gives advantage of solidity, trustability, limitlessness. It provides cost -
effectiveness. AI has lot of application in engineering, medicine, law, manufacturing, construction, 
linguistics, etc. AI provides perma nency that prevents loss of knowledge when the individual or 
group of member retire or are no longer available to the organisation. Artificial intelligence 
enhances development of learning capability.  
 [25] It improves efficiency of bank processes like KY C( know your costumer), scoring of credit, 
automation, classification of documents. It helps in development of security and controls of risks 
like monitoring and detection of money laundering. It monitors payment transaction. It also help in 
prevention of fraud. It enhances costumer experiences, satisfaction, interaction by voice banking, 
biometric authentication, costumer segmentation, chatbots, robo -advice, targeted costumer offers.  
 [26] Computer network and artificial intelligence has positive and power ful impact in revolution 
of manufacturing and production industry. With the wide availability of artificial intelligence 
product like sensors, smart devices, machine productivity has increased in recent time. With the use 
of artificial intelligence, produc t are analysed faster, more deeply and broadly. With introduction of 
the artificial intelligence efficiency, quality of the product has increased.  
 [27] It also provided with cost -effective and environment friendly. These all resulted high 
competition of manufacturing enterprise or group in market. Artificial intelligence is used also in 
designing the environment cost control of manufacturing sector.  
 [28] Artificial Intelligence helps in advancement of imaging modalities like ultrasound, 
mammography, magnetic resonance imaging, and tomosynthesis. It helps in detecting malignant 
lesions in the early stages and improve prognosis of breast cancer patients. By the use of machine 
learning software radiologist may increase their efficiency and free up more r esources. AI software 
also includes second opinion, access malignancy, patient assisting in triage.  
 
Challenges or Disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[29] It can be misused which can leads to large scale destruction. It affects human jobs. It makes 
younger generation lazy. There is increase in technological dependency. It is very time consuming 
and expensive. Mismatch of problem sometime done opposite to command.  
 [30] It is not easy to develop the machines as equipment are expensive. Machine cannot develop 
bond with human beings which is important for team management. Machine can only perform tasks 
which they are designed too, anything which is out of that leads to crash or give irrevelent outputs. 
Human interference is getting reduced.  
 [31] Legal a ction and foregoing regulation which follows identification of situations are 
challenged when it comes to making right decision. Artificial intelligence has multifaced character. 
We have the ability to write algorithms, but who wants to drive a car which c an kill you to save 
other people.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
181  [32] Artificial intelligence in military has high risk such that AI system need to be transparent in 
order to gain trust of decision maker and provide risk analysis. Artificial intelligence system of 
military should be re liable and rubust,it is a challenge as AI may be prone to unnoticeable 
manipulations of data entry.  
 [33] In the course setting college business English majors, there is lack of practical teaching 
skills to enhance the spirit of Artificial Intelligence. Ma ny university have conducted AI ideological 
education activities, but due to some reasons AI ideological education level is still low. The practice 
and application of Artificial Intelligence is still undivisible as there is lackage of practical link.  
 
Conc lusion  
In my own opinion Artificial Intelligence is the future. It can solve many real word problems.  
 It is very beneficial for human beings. It has many application like in military, ethics security 
and surveillance, agriculture. The automation made task  easier and cheaper. Artificial intelligence is 
very useful in healthcare sector as it reduces the risk. Artificial intelligence can benefit business by 
understanding costumer better and give them quick response to their requirements. Artificial 
intelligen ce can be highly beneficial for agriculture as it can improve the harvest quality and prevent 
plant diseases. It can help in prevention of destruction of crops. Artificial intelligence can enhance 
irrigation and farming systems. Artificial intelligence can  improve can improve efficiency of human 
workplace and can do human work. Artificial intelligence can be dangerous. There are many  
risks associated with Artificial intelligence like privacy violation, loss of human jobs,  
weapons automization, Artificial intelligence terrorism, socio economic inequality, Artificial 
intelligence has both good and bad effect. If we use Artificial intelligence in wisely it can benefit 
human very much.  
 
References  
Abdulov, R. (2020). Artificial intelligence as an important fac tor of sustainable and crisis -free 
economic growth. Procedia Computer Science , 169, 468 -472. 
Aghion, P., Jones, B. F., & Jones, C. I. (2019). 9. Artificial Intelligence and Economic Growth  (pp. 
237-290). University of Chicago Press.  
Agrawal, A., McHale, J., & Oettl, A. (2019). 5. Finding Needles in Haystacks: Artificial Intelligence 
and Recombinant Growth  (pp. 149 -174). University of Chicago Press.  
Attila Benko, Cecília Sik Lányi Encyclopedia of Information Science and Technology, Sec ond 
Edition, 1759 -1762, 2009. History of artificial intelligence.  
Attila Benko, Cecília Sik Lányi Encyclopedia of Information Science and Technology, Second 
Edition, 1759 -1762, 2009.History of artificial intelligence.  
Bo-hu Li, Bao -cun Hou, Wen -tao Yu, Xiao -bing Lu, Chun -wei Yang, Frontiers of Information 
Technology & Electronic Engineering 18 (1), 86 -96, 2017. Application of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing : a review.  
Bo-hu Li, Bao -cun Hou, Wen -tao Yu, Xiao -bing Lu, Chun -wei Yang, F rontiers of Information 
Technology & Electronic Engineering 18 (1), 86 -96, 2017. Application of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing : a review.  
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence. Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53-53. 
chen fu chien,stephane dauzere peres, woonghee tim huh ,young jane james .international journal 
production of research 2020.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
182 Chen, M., Liu, Q., Huang, S., & Dang, C. (2020). Environmental cost control system of 
manufacturing enterprises using artifi cial intelligence based on value chain of circular 
economy. Enterprise Information Systems, 1 -20. 
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms , applications, and case 
studies.  
Darius Nahavandi, Roohallah Alizadehsani, Abbas Khosravi, U Rajendra Acharya, Computer 
Methods and Programs in Biomedicine, 106541, 2021.Application of artificial intelligence 
in wearable devices: Opportunities and Challen ges. 
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., & Scharre, P. (2018). Artificial 
intelligence and international security . Center for a New American Security.  
Ku Chhaya A Khanzode, Ravindra D Sarode, International Journal of Libra ry & Information 
Science (IJLIS) 9 (1), 3, 2020  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review. Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering,  18(1), 86 -96. 
Lijia Chen, Pingping Chen, Zhijian LinIeee Access 8, 75264 -75278, 2020  
Mashrur Chowdhury, Adel W Sadek, Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation 
issues 6 (3), 360 -375, 2012  
Matjaž Perc, Mahmut Ozer, Janja Hojnik, Palgr ave Communications 5 (1), 1 -7, 2019  
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?  
Meng Guo  Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Nil Goksel, Aras BozkurtHandbook of Research on Learning in the Age of  Transhumanism, 224 -
236, 2019  
Nils J Nilsson.Cambridge University Press, 2009. The quest for artificial intelligence.  
Peter Svenmarck, Linus Luotsinen, Mattias Nilsson, Johan Schubert, Proceedings of the NATO Big 
Data and Artificial Intelligence for Milita ry Decision Making Specialists‘ Meeting, 1 -16, 
2018  
Peter Svenmarck, Linus Luotsinen, Mattias Nilsson, Johan Schubert, Proceedings of the NATO Big 
Data and Artificial Intelligence for Military Decision Making Specialists‘ Meeting, 1 -16, 
2018  
Radulov N.1 De partment National and International Security, New Bulgarian University, Sofia, 
Bulgaria  
Rajendra AkerkarPHI Learning Pvt. Ltd., 2014. Introduction to Artificial intelligence.  
S Bhbosale, V Pujari, Z Multani, Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research  Journal, 227 -230, 
2020  
Swati Goyal, BR Srivastava International Journal of Scientific Study 9 (1), 25 -30, 2021  
Vishal Dineshkumar Soni, International Engineering Journal For Research & Development 4 (1), 7 -
7, 2019  
Wagner, J. B. (2019). Artificial intellig ence in medical imaging. Radiologic technology , 90(5), 489 -
501.  
Wayne Holmes, Maya Bialik, Charles FadelBoston: Center for Curriculum Redesign, 2019.  
Zang, Y., Zhang, F., Di, C. A., & Zhu, D. (2015). Advances of flexible pressure sensors toward 
artificial  intelligence and health care applications. Materials Horizons , 2(2), 140 -156. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
183 ANALYSIS OF THE FEASIBILITY OF SMALL  
MODULAR REACTORS  
 
AKSHAT KASANA  
 
HIMANSHU BURDE  
 
SAMEER RANJAN  
Email ID: akshat.kasana2018@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Abstract  
This paper discusses the technical and economic aspects of a Small Modular Reactor (SMRs). The 
technologies and the designs available at present times are discussed in the beginning, followed by their 
overall contribution to electricity generation. The iss ues regarding investment into SMRs and their 
manufacturing are considered afterwards . Then a comparison between Large -Scale  Reactors (LSRs) and 
SMRs is done on basis of their initial capital costs, terrestrial footprint and power output. The fuel 
managemen t, safety, and modularity of SMRs are also analyzed. Additional benefits like load following and 
cogeneration are also mentioned. Social and political aspects of their development are included at the end.  
Keywords: small modular reactors , future nuclear po wer, clean energy, economic  analysis, cogeneration, safe 
nuclear technology  
 
Introduction  
With the increasing population, the demand for electricity and energy is also increasing. Traditional 
energy sources like coal and crude oil are facing cynical criticism due to the degradation they are 
causing to the environment. These resources are also d epleting rapidly. Hence, the requirement for 
clean energy is vital in the coming years. In this paper, we attempt to discuss the feasibility of using 
nuclear power as the main source of electricity for the future. Currently, nuclear power contributes a 
mere 11% of the total electricity production. A compact nuclear reactor would make nuclear 
electricity more accessible by bringing the nuclear reactor to every doorstep. All this is possible, 
once Small Modular Reactors (SMRs) become feasible and widely avail able. In the current times, 
large scales nuclear reactors are still not leading the energy production. Large initial investments and 
the huge amount of residual waste are a major cause of concern. Majority of the public is still scared 
of a nuclear meltdow n. This paper will also discuss whether investment in research on compact 
nuclear reactors is economically and environmentally viable or not in the current times. Yet, SMRs  
are still in their initial phase and need further research and investigation to be a leading electricity 
producer of the future.  
 
Literary Survey  
[1] Very few Small Modular Reactors (SMRs) are developed enough to be used for the production 
of energy on a commercial scale. Countries like Canada, France, India, Argentina, Japan, Brazil, 
Republic of Korea, China, Russia, USA, and South Africa are developing and researching SMRs 
technologies. Numerous concepts and design (including Generation IV designs) are a vailable. Light 
Water Reactors, Liquid Metal Cooled Reactors, and Gas Cooled Reactors are the main prospects. 
Supercritical Water Reactors are the least supported. The full -scale commercial performance testing 
is still pending. SMRs are easier to operate a nd maintain. The operational temperature of the Reactor 
Pressure Vessels (RPVs) is lower in SMRs than the Large Scale Reactors (LSRs). Consequently, 
less heat needs dissipation from the reactor and hence passive cooling systems can be used in them.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
184  [2] A variety of SMR designs help in selecting the best possible design for the commercial 
production of electricity. Working designs that have some level of industrial involvement are: 
<A>mPower: The reactors work in groups of two or more, which are buried unde r the ground. The 
nuclear steam supply and the once -through steam generators are placed inside the RPV. This ensures 
safety during a meltdown. <B>NuScale: The steam generator is a helically shaped coil, is placed 
inside the RPV. The steam leaves from the t op and the feedwater comes into the reactor from the 
bottom. The difference in the density drives the steam upwards. No coolant pumps are present. This 
removes the mechanical and electrical components of cooling systems. During a meltdown, the 
SMR is subme rged into a water pool. <C> Westinghouse: This SMR borrows many design aspects 
from the AP -1000 LSR, also by the same company. The core uses the same 89 Robust Fuel 
Assemblies, available and used worldwide. Most of the coolant components are inside the pre ssure 
vessel, making the reactor design modular.  
 [3]Traditional economics state LSRs are considered more viable compared to SMRs due to the 
belief in the principle of ‗Economy of Scale‘. It states the specific capital cost, i.e. currency/MWe of 
a reactor , decreases with increase in the size of the reactor; as the numerator (currency) increases at 
a slower rate than the denominator (output). Although, ‗Economy of Scale‘ principle can only be 
applied if the reactors are similar in design and just differ in size, as it had been the case in the past. 
This is no longer correct as modern SMRs have distinct designs and characteristics, meaning that the 
‗Economy of Scale‘ cannot be applied to the economic analysis of LSR vs SMR. Moreover, the 
investments in SMRs a re also modular due to their small size and short construction time. In 
particular, SMRs  are more flexible and adaptable to the market conditions where the capacity of the 
plant can be instantaneously decreased or increased according to the demand i.e. mar ket matching. 
On the contrary, LSRs require a huge amount of time to be manufactured due to which the 
investment can only be made on the bases of long -term planning and predictions which can be risky.  
 [4] Reutler and Lohnert (1984), stated that a power pl ant composed of multiple small modular 
reactors should be competitive enough to produce electricity on a commercial scale. Taking the 
example of High -Temperature Gas -Cooled Reactor Pebble -Bed Module (HTR -PM) vs the 
Pressurized Water Reactor (PWR), it is ob served that factor of differentiation between them is the 
cost of the RPV. This cost gap is almost negligible because the RPV contributes only 2% of the total 
capital costs of the PWR power plants. Large Nuclear Reactor (LNR) produces 1000 MWs – 1200 
MWs w hereas, SMRs produce around 250 MWs – 300 MWs. Thus, the future of their construction 
and maintenance is on their 'economics of scale' (costs which are dependent on the scale of output) 
and 'economics of experience' (reduction in costs of manufacturing wit h the help of knowledge 
gained). In the case of HTR -PM, it was found that 2 x 250 MW is a better option than one 458 MW 
plant. Even though the 2 x 250 MW costs 5% more than the 458 MW, the technical certainties of the 
2 x 250 MW against the 458 MW, making it the economic winner.  
 [5] A Monte Carlo evaluation was done on the economics of a medium scale reactor, a 
combined cycle gas turbine and a coal power plant using probabilistic analysis. The results show 
that coal tax plays a major role in deciding the feasibility of SMRs. If the current taxes levied on 
coal remain the same, SMRs will not have a considerable impact in the coming years. But if the 
governments are vigilant enough and increase the coal tax, it could jumpstart the SMR economy. By 
creating a portfolio of designs and trying to reach higher flexibility we can minimize risks and 
increase revenue for the investors. Costs which are lost to make a nuclear reactor smaller are 
recovered by making it modular, i.e. parts manufactured on an industrial sc ale and assembled on 
site.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
185  [6] SMRs due to their simpler designs are much safer compared to LSRs. SMRs can incorporate 
passive systems based on natural laws, like gravity and natural circulation for, decay heat removal 
and emergency core cooling. Some SM Rs like CAREM -25 of Argentina, NuScale of the USA and 
ABV -6M of Russia use natural circulation for cooling in normal operation mode and avoid coolant 
circulation pumps. Natural circulation system uses the difference in density between single liquid 
coming downward in the annulus of the reactor vessel and the two -phase mixture going upward in 
the core. This is made possible by increasing the volume of water in the vessel and by adding 
chimney above a shorter core, as most of the SMRs have a shorter core, the  required buoyant force 
can be easily established. Other passive systems include the Nuclear Steam Supply System (NSSS) 
and Engineered Safety Features (ESF). The NSSS module removes external coolant loop piping, 
which eliminates large -break loss -of-coolant  accident. The passive  ESFs eliminates the need for 
external power under accident conditions.  
 [7] It is impossible to set up LSRs in countries with geographical constraints and weak economy 
due to natural barriers and insufficient technical infrastructur e. These regions don‘t have proper grid 
capacity. Thus, SMRs are the perfect solution which can be tailored to tackle a particular set of 
problems which cannot be addressed by LSRs. Their small size makes them much suitable for 
smaller grids with low capac ity, for areas with low population and low energy demand. Due to their 
modularity, they can be manufactured completely in the factory and can be delivered and installed 
module by module. This is simpler especially in cases where onsite manufacturing is imp ossible due 
to geographic barriers.   
 [8] Renewable energy power plants like wind and solar are highly variable in energy production. 
This is a major problem for electricity grid managers. Incorporating SMRs along with solar and 
wind can solve the problem of the fluctuating energy production in the power plants. This will 
ensure constant electricity supply to the grid and saving fuel and costs as well. This is achieved by 
using multi -module SMRs which increase their electric production when less electricity  is generated 
by the solar and wind power plants. LSRs can also be used but they offer no fuel or cost saving due 
to the substantially fixed nature of input raw material. This form of load following is different from 
the one used in developed nations, like  Germany and France, where the time of increase in demand 
is known. This is better for developing countries, where solar and wind are increasing rapidly, and 
where timings of the increase in demand for energy are still unknown.  
 [9] SMRs are extremely sui table for setting up cogeneration plants. <A> Biorefinery mainly 
produces biofuel out of biomass, electrical energy, and thermal energy. Biofuel includes biodiesel, 
ethanol, biogas, and bio -jet fuel. If SMRs are set up along with a biorefinery then, 50% of  the energy 
produced by the SMRs should be directed towards the biorefinery, when it is working in load 
following mode. <B> Water desalination can be done by using the membrane method or the thermal 
method. Membrane method mainly uses electricity, whereas thermal energy is used in the thermal 
method. The start time of a desalination plant is not fixed. The plant can start and stop at any 
moment and keep working properly. Load following SMRs can be integrated with this cogeneration 
plant. <C> Another possibl e cogeneration technique is to heat a group of buildings or a district in a 
subpolar or polar region using numerous SMRs placed at proper locations.  
 [10] Lower costs, higher safety, and less waste are the main reasons why SMRs are advocated 
so strongly b y the pro -nuclear public. But it is seen, the available SMR designs are not perfect. 
Practical designs have to make choices in between the three and trade one for the other. Lower cost 
and higher safety never seem to fit together into a single design. Exam ple, the HTR -PM operates at ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
186 higher temperatures because it uses small pebbles (balls) with the unique coating as its fuel. This 
provides higher security and safety but costs are increased due to the requirement to manufacture the 
special fuel. Safety is al so sacrificed when fast neutron reactors are used, which generate less 
quantity of radioactive waste. Another factor opposing SMRs is the proliferation of nuclear weapons 
by the different nations developing SMRs. Almost all the general public is still afra id of nuclear 
technology due to the horrors of WW2 and the various nuclear meltdowns over the years.  
 
Findings  
Due to the small size, modularity and simplicity SMRs show a diversity of unique advantages which 
cannot be replicated in LSRs. SMRs provide increased safety. The risks of a reactor meltdown are 
also reduced while using lower capacity reactors. They are cleaner than the LSRs as SMRs are more 
fuel efficient and produce less radioactive waste. Their operability is not limited by geography or 
location. Few SMRs are commercially active and are still to produce electricity on an industrial 
scale. A large variety of SMR designs provide options to the investors and governments. SMRs can 
be incorporated into cogeneration plants. These can be highly effi cient and provide additional 
services. Remote countries in demand of a clean and stable energy source, which are unable to set 
up LSRs can benefit from SMRs. Their small size makes them much suitable for smaller grids. Due 
to their modularity, they can be factory made and shipped to these regions. In terms of economic, 
they still need to reduce their manufacturing costs as compared to LSRs for the same amount of 
electricity output.  
 
Conclusion  
Individuals advocating for development and deployment of SMRs on  a large scale suggest this new 
alternative form of nuclear power can rectify all major problems that we are facing with nuclear 
power today. Still, there are significant technical and social gaps to be covered. Research should be 
focused on better passive  cooling systems for RPVs. Traditional nuclear fuel rods need to be 
replaced. 96% of the traditions fuel gets wasted and is stored underground and not used again. More 
efficient fuel layouts and materials are coming up, but more research is needed before t heir 
commercialization. Modularization of RPV and reactor simplification is required. It is important to 
make people aware of nuclear energy so that the people in power can make educated decisions; even 
if they are against this technology. Concerned author ities should invest in SMR development as it 
goes one step further in securing the future of humankind. By 2050, 11 billion humans will need 
electricity supply and clean water, Small Modular Reactors might just be the answer.  
 
References  
Black, G., Black, M. A. T., Solan, D., & Shropshire, D. (2015). Carbon -free energy development 
and the role of small modular reactors: A review and decision framework for deployment in 
developing countries.  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews , 43, 83-94. 
Carelli, M. D., Garrone, P., Locatelli, G., Mancini, M., Mycoff, C., Trucco, P., &Ricotti, M. E. 
(2010). Economic features of integral, modular, small -to-medium size reactors. Progress in 
Nuclear Energy, 52(4), 403 -414. 
Kessides, I. N., &Kuznetsov, V. (2012). Small modular reactors for enhancing energy security in 
developing countries.  Sustainability,  4(8), 1806 -1832  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
187 Liu, Z., & Fan, J. (2014). Technology readiness assessment of small modular reactor (SMR) 
designs.  Progress in Nuclear Energy , 70, 20-28. 
Locatelli, G., & Mancini, M. (2010). Small -medium  sized nuclear coal and gas power plant: A 
probabilistic analysis of their financial performances and influence of CO2 cost.  Energy 
Policy , 38(10), 6360 -6374.  
Locatelli, G., & Mancini, M. (2010). Small -mediu m sized nuclear coal and gas power plant: A 
probabilistic analysis of their financial performances and influence of CO2 cost.  Energy 
Policy , 38(10), 6360 -6374.  
Locatelli, G., Boarin, S., Pellegrino, F., &Ricotti, M. E. (2015). Load following with Small Mod ular 
Reactors (SMR): A real options analysis.  Energy , 80, 41-54. 
Ramana, M. V., & Mian, Z. (2014). One size doesn‘t fit all: Social priorities and technical conflicts 
for small modular reactors.  Energy Research & Social Science , 2, 115 -124. 
Rowinski, M. K. , White, T. J., & Zhao, J. (2015). Small and medium -sized  reactors (SMR): A 
review of the technology . Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews , 44, 643 -656. 
Zhang, Z., & Sun, Y. (2007). The economic  potential of modular reactor nuclear power plants based 
on the Chinese HTR -PM project.  Nuclear Engineering and Design , 237(23), 2265 -2274.  
 
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
188 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
SANSKAR JOTWANI  
(21BCE2785) , B. Tech Computer Science  
Email ID: sanskar.jotwani2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Introduction  
This Article focuses on the basic insight towards the world of Artificial Intelligence – its growth, 
history and applications. The findings published here may comprise of debatable concepts even 
today. The article aims towards understanding the capabilities of AI, its pros and cons a long with 
various applications in multiple fields of occupations and research across the globe. Moreover, it 
highlights some of the features, capabilities with potential to improve and shortcomings of AI that 
have been overlooked in the recent years.  
 
What  is AI?  
[1] Artificial Intelligence revolves around the concept of building highly intelligent machines, 
capable of performing tasks which utilize human understanding and decision making. However, the 
scope and limitations of this concept may exceed the sc ope of biological observations .[2] Artificial 
Intelligence focuses on the learning aspect of machines. That is, the activities and decisions of 
humans can be recreated with great precision and accuracy through patterns and observations.  
 
History of AI  
[3] The foundation of AI was based upon looking into the capabilities of machines and 
understanding their limits. However, as exploration continued, it was found that the opportunities 
were endless and that such complex machine learning gave way to greater op portunities. Thus, 
further research was put in towards Artificial Intelligence .[4] During the initial stages of software 
development, a software engineer, Alan Turing created a testing mechanism to detect and classify 
software as ‗intelligent‘ via the ‗Tur ing Test‘. The testing involved criteria wherein mimicry of 
human behavior was observed in various machines and hence, were termed ‗intelligent‘ accordingly. 
This paved the way towards the development and research of Artificially Intelligent software. 
Initially, the understanding of AI slightly varied from the now globally accepted concept. A program 
or code was considered Artificially Intelligence provided it had the means to give users the 
information they needed. However, further development and research  in the field has brought about 
a new meaning wherein AI involves providing users asked information and learn from 
repeated/unique actions on its own over time.  
 
Growth of AI  
[5] The growth of Artificial Intelligence in the industry solely depends upon its  growth in the 
economic sector. Moreover, further research and development can only be made into AI if said 
machines are capable of contributing a significant amount to the economic section and therefore 
attaining profit. Thus, it is noticeable that tech c orporations, electronic retailers invest a great deal 
towards Artificially Intelligent devices – capable of providing users required information and 
services at their convenience .[6] Although AI has reached great heights and has produced significant 
result s. With further insight into attaining greater means of recreating human behavior and decision -
making along with computational capabilities exceeding that of humans, AI can reach even greater 
heights. Moreover, investments and development in the field of A rtificial Intelligence and applied 
fields, multiple job opportunities, research fields and innovations are yet to come in the near future.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
189 Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare Appliances  
[7] The management of various medicines, their abundance, doses and requirements is an extremely 
difficult and time -consuming process. Thus, AI is utilized to great extents in the medical field to 
keep track of large -scale data and increase efficiency in diag nosing ailments and procuring the 
appropriate ointments. [8] Ailments and their treatment often differ greatly in the minds of different 
doctors and can thus raise questions regarding the availability of different medicines and thus, the 
most efficient app roach towards curing it. AI allows storage and manipulation of data so as to ensure 
that resources are never wasted. [9] The benefit AI provides in the medical field is that it can be 
made fast and efficient by making it a deliberately dedicated software f or medicine. That is, the 
software is permitted to store data only for diseases, medicines and availability of ingredients. This 
prevents confusion and set -backs often faced by humans due to interferences by concepts learnt in 
different fields and their lo gical applications.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Manufacturing and Production  
[10] AI has been setup in manufacturing industries and factories to facilitate periodic inspections, 
fault detection and maintenance. Further initiatives have been taken in the manufacturing 
department to enable AI machines to understand and thus make the trad itional human method of 
approach towards manufacturing with machine level decision making abilities. [11] AI has 
significantly contributed to the manufacturing department seeing that the technology enables 
machines to use human knowledge with machine level  precision, environmental information and 
make high -quality, cost -efficient products for consumption. [12] AI is not directly implemented into 
manufacturing industries once available. Instead, it is setup with equipment to ensure that it is 
dedicated towar ds the allotted task and thus, completes its tasks efficiently. AI in manufacturing 
industries is augmented with larger databases and state -of-the-art management infrastructure and 
technology. Moreover, AI can also be used to build initial prototypes to wh ich, further upgrades and 
augmentations are added as deemed fit.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Security and Surveillance  
[13] Implementation of AI in security and surveillance aspects can be of great deal because of the 
benefits AI provides in terms of data management and correlation. Criminology involves attaining 
clues and correlating them with data that is observed and inferred on different locations and at 
different timings. This time consuming and confusing process can be solved quickly with the help 
AI in the most efficient ways possible, that is, storage of required data, assistance in criminal 
analysis and independent management of separate databases corresponding to different cases. [14] 
Although AI seems to be a good alternative from human resource f or security and surveillance due 
to the absence of various limitations such as exhaustion and distractions, it could be the very reason 
of compromise for others‘ security. Misuse of AI, if any, could lead to an invasion of privacy of any 
individual. Future  development in AI could potentially make simple AI machines able to infiltrate or 
compromise information with little investment due to availability of advanced but highly vulnerable 
AI implemented devices. [15] To protect one‘s cyberspace, a person or org anization attacks the 
other. Here, implementation of AI to combat invasion of cybercrime can be extremely beneficial as 
it decreases the number of stakeholders required to combat a security breach. Updating a software to 
keep check of all sorts of malware and also enabling it to approach issues with a human mindset can 
allow AI in security departments to come up with new and unique solutions too. This allows AI to 
surpass any human shortcomings and hence, locate threats and act upon it immediately.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
190 AI in Ed ucation  
[16] Artificial Intelligence utilizes various means of calibrations and scales to measure human 
proficiency in learning, understanding and resource gathering. This allows machines to be 
implemented in the education sector – capable of imitating hum an means of teaching with superior 
data management and efficient teaching methods .[17] The progress of the education department has 
moved beyond the traditional memorizing of concepts and formulae towards understanding the 
value of significant competencies  such as critical thinking, metacognition and collaborative skills. 
This provides AI the golden opportunity to help develop in recreation/imitation of human 
competencies and thus, can be an asset for the education sector via utilization by means of E -
learn ing, catalogues, libraries, databases and much more .[18] Implementation of Artificial 
Intelligence can be highly beneficial especially for software programming/ coding related 
engineering. This is so, because these machines can be used to learn syntax, key words and other 
functions from various languages (XML, C++, DHTML, MATLAB, etc) and enable rookie coders 
to perform their programming with ease as they can seek assistance for their codes when in need. 
Furthermore, this AI could be upgraded beyond current capabilities, that is, autocorrect mere errors 
or even form its own means of debugging and program compiling/interpreting.  
 
Advantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[19] There are occurrences where moral values, ethics and other factors affect a person‘s decision 
making. Here, AI can be used to understand consequences of various choices and factors, thus, 
allow users to choose the most efficient in decision in debatable i nstances .[20] AI allows easy and 
convenient transfer, storage of data, which cannot be replicated among humans. Moreover, the 
machines to which data is transferred can be configured to recreate human behavior/practices that 
were recognized and learnt by th e former machines. .[21] AI allows easy management of databases 
in intensive data management related occupations (example: Libraries). Machines can recognize and 
learn patterns and automatically become capable of categorizing and keeping check of data. 
Moreover, it can learn to provide suggestions, pre -requisites and other convenient formalities via 
long-term usage and pattern recognition . [22] AI allows users to dwell deep into understanding and 
making progress in content/document analysis. This is highly beneficial in educational and research 
related departments wherein Natural Language Processing can be utilized to distinguish common 
and informal dialects and language with formally accepted means of communication for 
research/academic publishing. This als o allows AI to interpret common phrases and metaphors from 
common speech, thus, learning more about human cognition and behavior .[23]AI has proven to be 
highly beneficial in E -learning. Programs which can recognize cognitive and competence related 
developm ent adapt to users‘ progress in E -learning and can provide the required material to 
individual students after analyzing their development. Furthermore, this allows the AI to learn more 
about student progress, analyze their academic development and is able to plot the academic 
progression throughout their study session.  
 
Disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[24] Although AI has its great benefits and provides convenience for rookies, employers and other 
occupations, further development and progress in th is department may lead to job substitution by AI, 
that is, people may lose their jobs because these machines are able to perform the same task more 
efficiently. Thus, drastically affecting the human resource availability . [25] Since AI has the Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
191 capability of recreating human behavior and understanding, it is extremely crucial to ensure that AI 
does not fall into the wrong hands. The reach that AI has in today‘s world can be misused very 
easily to create mishaps, potentially lead ing to problems that could greatly impact the general public. 
In addition to this, it could also be used to infiltrate corporations and facilities to attain information 
that may lead to potential compromise of multiple private firms or even the safety of a  country .[26] 
Although AI makes tasks easy and convenient, the programming and effort done to create specific 
task-based AI involves a lot of complex procedures, pattern -based programming and recognition. 
This requires a great amount of time, resources and  investment. However, if the program/product 
comprises of setbacks, limitations or defects, it could lead to loss of funds and affect the economic 
functioning of firms and facilities . [27] Artificial Intelligence comes in many kinds of programs and 
applica tions with varied applications in different fields. However, the use of AI in the programming 
of social media apps and related features has made AI conducive to social media addiction. The 
youth of today spends the vast majority of their times on social me dia and video games. This affects 
the social and creative aspects, thus, affecting their overall viability as an asset/human resource in 
the future. Moreover, the reliance on Artificially Intelligence machines has proven to make people 
lazy and unwilling t o take efforts. This drastically affects the quality of human resource for the 
multiple sectors in development for all the countries across the globe, thus, also affecting the 
potential that AI can achieve for the coming future . [28]One of the biggest vuln erabilities of AI is 
the requirement of active connections – a source which allows the program to continuously process 
data and learn new things. The absence of an information pool for AI to treat as source along with 
possible threats such as cyber -attacks  via third party software (hacking, infiltrating) may render AI 
useless in certain scenarios. This leads to greater investment to ensure that cyber -attacks do not 
compromise important data. Ultimately, making the development process very expensive.  
 
Conclu sion 
The number of opportunities across the globe at present for implementation/application of AI are at 
an all -time high and will increase exponentially. From simple web -browser search engines to 
complex part manufacturing machines, AI has undoubtedly pro vided convenience in performing 
tasks in the vast spectrum of jobs, occupation and research fields across the globe. Although AI is 
extremely reliant as is in the present generation, further investment, research and developments in 
the field of Artificial Intelligence could potentially improve upon its shortcomings and thus, work on 
matters which have been overlooked. Further allowing the rise of new occupations and research.  
 Overall, it is blatant that the applications of AI discussed here contribute bare ly nothing 
compared to the vast spectrum of possible opportunities to implement AI in the present generation 
of technology and electronics. The capabilities of AI to learn patterns, human behavior, cognition 
and competencies give way to a future wherein th e highly advanced human race is accompanied by 
AI in all walks of life. Albeit, the thought of a future where humans have to put in significantly less 
effort to achieve their goals may be intriguing, it also raises concerns regarding employment, human 
resource and its quality. Further investigation may occur to ensure that a delicate balance is attained 
in this matter, possibly through the assistance of AI.  
 
References  
Aghion, P., Antonin, C., & Bunel, S. (2019). Artificial intelligence, growth and employment: The 
role of policy.  Economie et Statistique , 510(1), 149 -164.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
192 Allen, G., & Chan, T. (2017).  Artificial intelligence and national security . Cambridge, MA: Belfer 
Center for Science and International Affairs.  
Benbow, T. (2012). How does the development of Artificial Intelligence and/or Intelligent Software 
Agents‘ disadvantage or benefit society in today‘s world?.  
Benko, A., & Lányi, C. S. (2009). History of artificial intelligence. In  Encyclopedia of Information 
Science and Technology, Secon d Edition  (pp. 1759 -1762). IGI Global.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief histo ry of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53. 
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Chowd hury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial 
intelligence.  Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -
375. 
 Devedžić, V. (2004). Web intelligence and artificial intelligence in education.  Educational 
technology & society , 7(4), 29 -39.  
Dick, S. (2019). Artificial intelligence.  
Holmes, W., Bialik, M., & Fadel, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education.  Boston: Center for 
Curriculum Redesign . 
Holzinger, A., Langs, G., Denk, H., Zatlouka l, K., & Müller, H. (2019). Causability and 
explainability of artificial intelligence in medicine.  Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Data 
Mining and Knowledge Discovery , 9(4), e1312.  
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Kose, U., Arslan, A., & Campus, A. K. (2015). E -learning experience with artificial intelligence 
supported softwa re: An international application on English language 
courses.  GLOKALde , 1(3), 61 -75. 
Lee, L. W., Dabirian, A., McCarthy, I. P., & Kietzmann, J. (2020). Making sense of text: artificial 
intelligence -enabled content analysis.  European Journal of Marketing . 
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96.  
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is arti ficial intelligence?.  
Minsky, M., & Papert, S. A. (1972). Artificial intelligence progress report.  
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries. In  Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of Defence Delhi . 
Radulov, N. (2019). Artificial intelligence and security. Security 4.0.  Security & Future , 3(1), 3 -5.  
Ramesh, A. N., Kambhampati, C., Mon son, J. R., & Drew, P. J. (2004). Artificial intelligence in 
medicine.  Annals of the Royal College of Surgeons of England , 86(5), 334.  
Roll, I., & Wylie, R. (2016). Evolution and revolution in artificial intelligence in 
education.  International Journal of  Artificial Intelligence in Education , 26(2), 582 -599. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
193 Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technolo gies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Szolovits, P. (Ed.). (2019).  Artificial intelligence in medicine . Routledge.  
Tao, B., Díaz, V., & Guerra, Y. (2019). Artificial Intelligence and Education, Challenges and 
Disadvantages for the Teacher.  Arctic Journal , 72(12), 30 -50. 
Wan, J., Li, X., Dai, H. N., Kusiak, A., Martínez -García, M., & Li, D. (2020). Artificial -intelligence -
driven customized manufacturing factory: key technologies, applications, and 
challenges.  Proceedings of the IEEE , 109(4), 377 -398.  
Wirkutti s, N., & Klein, H. (2017). Artificial intelligence in cybersecurity.  Cyber, Intelligence, and 
Security , 1(1), 103 -119. 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
194 CYBER CRIME AND NEED OF CYBER CAMANDOS  
 
SHIVAM KUMAR SINGH  
Email ID: shivamkumar.singh2018@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Abstract  
In the world of today where we are too much depended on computer and more specifically Internet, we are not 
paying head to the approaching disaster i.e. cyber -crime. Although the first cyber attack took place in 1834 in 
France but, still we are not paying head to it the most recent one among them was wanna cry. Cyber crime 
has introduced a total new form of criminals, what make these criminals more dangerous is the very fact that 
they need not to be physically strong or carry any weapons like traditional cr iminals. They can have your 
personal data on their finger finger tips. The good news is that now the government has started recognizing 
the need of cyber commandos, these cyber commandos are sometimes also referred as ethical hackers. Their 
main work is to  hack the government server with permission from government so as to find the loop hole; if 
any and sometimes they are also used for offensive attack but still the step taken in this direction is not 
sufficient and there is lot to be done.  
Keyword s: cyber  crime , cyber commandos, ethical hackers, cyber terrorism,  cyber attack   
 
Introduction  
The world today relies heavily on the need of internet. The introduction of smartphone, desktop, 
laptop and other devices has increased its value in our day to day life.  In present day we can‘t 
imagine our world without internet; but this internet has given birth to a total new world called cyber 
world. This world is both a boon and ban for our society. On one side where it makes our life easy 
through cashless transaction , simulation, e -governance and many other things; at the same time, it 
has given birth to the whole new breed of criminal often referred as hacker‘s or cyber -criminal. 
Wanna cry, not petya are some of the cyber -attack which resulted in huge loss of money. As a 
matter of concern cyber -crime is now not limited to economic or money loss now it has moved one 
step further now it is resulting in death of young children blue whale game is one of those things. 
Many times, it is misinterpreted that cyber world is fo r young generation and they have to deal with 
it the older generation is immune to it and they can‘t fall into it; as a matter of fact, it is not true. 
Hackers are using this mentality against the old generation. As per the survey conducted by site 
named e ngineering and technology 75% of people aging more than 45 accepted that they have been 
targeted by spam e -mail; 6% excepted that they have fallen in trap of it; about a quarter of people 
aging more than 75 excepted that they feel vulnerable although they have excepted that it has made 
their life easy. All this problem for sure hints towards a whole new dimension of war the ―cyber 
war‖. Imagine a Scenario where government of a country is not left with any other choice than war. 
In this case if they go for f ull fledge war and even if they win war they will suffer huge loss of life, 
money, resources and inflammation. On other hand if the same country goes for cyber war than the 
not just save their resources and people but also gains money, wealth and depletion  of enemy 
country economy without wasting a single bullet. INDIA is not an exception to this; INDIA can may 
face a cyber war or cyber threat to tackle with such situation we need cyber commandos who can not 
only tackle such situation but also counter attac k if needed. Clearly, it‘s time for fourth generation 
war where battle will be fought in cyber world and the fate of the world will be decided there. Gone 
are those days when battle where fought on the ground now is the time of cyber world we need 
cyber co mmandos and ethical hackers to save ourselves.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
195 Literary survey  
Taylor [1] has stressed the importance of discovering the different types of cybercrime taking place 
in today‘s world i.e. Digital crime and digital terrorism. With the increase in terrorist a ct committed 
using computer technology. He has addressed the problem of hacker‘s and other other type of digital 
criminal. He also discussed about the different strategies and legal option to tackle them. He 
emphasized on the need to address the problem of  cyber terrorism and information warfare. D. 
Halder [2] believes that majority of the cybercrime committed against women is due is due to the 
absence of proper legislation. Art 17 of international covenant on civil and political rights (1996) 
which prohibi ts ―arbitrary or unlawful interference with privacy, family, home or correspondence or 
unlawful attacks on honor or reputation‖. Section 509 of IPC prohibit words, gesture or act intended 
to insult the modesty of women but this law is not able to protect e ffectively the rights of women in 
cyber space. Nykodym [3] considers that the cyber -crime is increasing at a very high speed and the 
progress made in this direction to tackle cyber -crime is not sufficient which has created a large gap 
in legislative compat ibility across international the globe. The very idea that an individual 
committing crime in cyber space may not fit in a certain classified branch of criminals but evidence 
suggest that certain distinguish characteristics cyber criminals may exist in cybe r space. The most 
common among all is the cyber -criminal inside their own wall. Broadhurst [4] explores the nature of 
groups engaged in cybercrime, he outlines the definition and scope of cybercrime or cyber 
offenders. The paper gave example of known cases  and motivation of typical offenders, which 
includes state offenders. The cybercrime committed by state actor, appears to acquire leadership, 
structure and specialization. By contrast, protest activity tends to be less organized with weak chain 
of command.  Britz [5] has stressed on the creation of unparallel opportunities for commerce, 
research, education, entertainment and public discourses. The increase on reliance on digital 
technology and communication. Many undergraduate students rely on internet for s ource of 
knowledge but, unfortunately the quality and and authenticity of material available on internet often 
comes under question. A person sitting in Madagascar can easily stalk a girl sitting thousands of 
kilometers away or he can share the blue print of weapon of mass destruction while enjoying all the 
comfort. Mc Cusker [6] has stressed on law enforcement prospective to control traditionally 
organized group in cyber space, however it is not clear wether or not any any such group exist or 
not. One thin g which is for sure is that it is organized when it is targeted at a particular person or 
group of people. The critical question questioniewether the introduction of cyber crime has 
facilitated traditional crime or it has created a total new dimension. He pointed out that there is very 
less state of apoplexy within law enforcement agencies . He believed that there is very thin line 
between organized cyber criminals and criminals who simply operate in online space. Lewis [7] 
stressed on the role of mass medi a in extension of information through entertainment. He 
emphasized more on fraud, organized crime and terrorism; which lead him to think about the 
unwillingness of establishment to tackle it and the hierocracy of businesspeople or politician. The 
presence of lobbyist media and NGO increases the liable risk involved in cyber space. Business 
done today through technology i.e. cashless transaction and others are technologically vulnerable, 
and these affected business people are neglected by traditional media. David wall [8] stressed on the 
slow response of criminologist. He pointed out that in today‘s world it is not difficult for a 16 -year-
old to become the world‘s largest threat after Adolf hitler and that too without leaving his comfort 
chair. How we respond  to them remain unanswered. He stressed on the on the importance to give 
rise to the cyber -crime justice system. Bhatt [9] stressed on the origin of cybercrime to the growing ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
196 dependence on computers in modern life. While it has bought remarkable change in our life 
subsequently it become popular as cyber world. It is surrounded by number of things in which crime 
is the most serious threat. Harcourt [10] has stressed on the major analysis of emerging cultural 
characteristics of women‘s activities on the inter net across the globe, it brings together 
communication expert, development worker‘s and media analyst and women movement. It maps 
both social, economic and political biases in which the culture of cyber space is imbedded as well 
it‘s revolutionary potentia l explores women‘s knowledge. It rethinks the very idea of culture by 
looking at the link and discontinues between the local and global cyber culture.   
 
Findings  
Today different type of cyber crime has started taking place like cyber stalking, cyber terrorism, data 
theft and many others. Women‘s are the easiest targets in this type of case this is due to lack of 
legislation. As per article published in India Times dated July 25, 2017 banks lost ₹88553 per hour 
due to cyber crime in last 3 year. Traditionally armed forces of any country consist of three 
components i.e. Army, Navy and Airforce but now in the changed world a fourth component is 
added i.e. cyber command os, both for offensive as well as defensive purpose.  
 
Recommendation and Conclusion  
Before writing this research paper I was sure that cyber crime is a big challenge for today‘s world 
and the only solution for this crisis is cyber commandos. Now after writing this research paper I can 
conclude that my assumption was correct. In this field there is huge scope of research and 
development so as to tackle the cyber criminals.  
 
Reference s 
Bhatt, S. C., & Pant, D. (2011). Cyber Crime in India. International J ournal of Advanced Research 
in Computer Science , 2(5). 
Britz, M. T. (2009). Computer Forensics and Cyber Crime: An Introduction, 2/E . Pearson Education 
India.  
Broadhurst, R., Grabosky, P., Alazab, M., Bouhours, B., & Chon, S. (2014). An analysis of the 
nature of groups engaged in cyber crime.  
Halder, D., Jaishankar, K., & Jaishankar, K. (2012). Cyber -crime and the victimization of women: 
laws, rights and regulations . Hershey, PA: Information Science Reference.  
Harcourt, W. (Ed.). (1999). Women@ Internet: Cr eating new cultures in cyberspace . Palgrave 
Macmillan.  
Levi, M. (2006). The media construction of financial white -collar crimes. British Journal of 
Criminology , 46(6), 1037 -1057.  
McCusker, R. (2006). Transnational organised cyber crime: distinguishing thre at from reality. 
Crime, law and social change , 46(4-5), 257 -273. 
Nykodym, N., Taylor, R., & Vilela, J. (2005). Criminal profiling and insider cyber crime. Computer 
Law & Security Review , 21(5), 408 -414. 
Taylor, R. W., Fritsch, E. J., &Liederbach, J. (2014) . Digital crime and digital terrorism . Prentice 
Hall Press.  
Wall, D. (Ed.). (2003). Crime and the Internet . Routledge.  
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
197 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, WHAT IS IT?  
 
RITURAJ MAHATO  
B.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering  
Email ID: rituraj.mahato2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Introduction  
Artificial Intelligence has grown to be immensely popular in today‘s world.AI is a study of how 
human brain think, learn, decide, and work, when it tries to solve problems. Aim of Artificial 
Intelligence is  to improve computer functions which are connected to human knowledge such as 
reasoning,learning,problem -solving, belief and linguistic intelligence.  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence?  
[1] Artificial Intelligence refers to the science and engineering used t o make smart systems, in 
computer science domain which helping in technological advancements. It is the replica of how the 
human intelligence works but it does not deliver the methods that are biologically observable.[2] 
Artificial Intelligence can be thou ght as a study which deals with the analytical and algorithmic 
aspect of problems, using the computational models. [3] Artificial Intelligence is a field within 
computer science which tries to set upenhanced intelligence into various computer systems.  
 
History of Artificial Intelligence?  
[4] Artificial Intelligence discovered because of the historic philosophy, imaginations, and 
demonstrations by some of the leading scientists, researchers of old times. Early inventions were 
related to the fields like elect ronics, engineering, mechanics, and many more had severe impact on 
AI (Artificial Intelligence). Demonstrative Programs were made in various domains like 
understanding the language, memory association, comprehensive systems, etc. In recent century, the 
tech industry has been able to build and implement AI based programs in real life problems. 
Nowadays, we have a practical demonstration of AI in different fields, which once existed as a 
theoretical possibility.[5] There is a controversy throughout the histor y of Artificial Intelligence over 
whether intelligence could be shown by the computer systems. In this generation, modern logic was 
involved in the evolution of digital computers, that is how we were able to enter the whole concept 
of AI. [6] Artificial In telligence was first reported in 1950s. Due to certain limitations at that time it 
was prevented widespread acceptance and application to medicine. In the early 2000s, many of these 
limitations were overcome by the advent of Deep Learning. AI systems were able to analyse 
complex algorithms and self -learning, now AI could be applied in clinical practicethrough risk 
assessment models, improving diagnostic accuracy and workflow efficiency. DL (Deep 
Learning)was an important advancement in Artificial Intelligen ce. AsML (Machine Learning), uses 
a set number of traits and requires human input, Deep Learning can be trained to classify data on its 
own. Convolutional neural network (CNN) is a type of Deep Learning algorithm whichwhen applied 
to image processing that simulates the behaviour of interconnected neurons of the human brain. 
Multiple Layers of CNN are used to analyse an input image to recognize patterns and create specific 
filters. Some famous CNN algorithms which are now available are Le -NET, AlexNet, VGG, 
GoogLeNet, and ResNet. 
 ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
198 Growth of Artificial Intelligence?  
[7] Molecular biology and evolutionary theory explains us that all the compelling features of 
biological agents like intelligence, all these have their roots into Darwinian evolution with some 
majo r refinements. When we talk about the AI research community, people think that evolutionary 
processes are not capable of creating machine intelligence. In the past decade, problem solving 
performance of algorithms has been advanced to a much larger extent.  Algorithms can now even 
supply competitive results in fields of science and engineering as compared to human intelligence.  
[8] In the last 25 years, Artificial Intelligence achieved significant growth in the field of education. 
Growth of Artificial Intell igence was possible because of structured approach of development 
specifically for education sector. Major focus on general classroom activities, collars with various 
teachers and taking their suggestions, and diversifying required technologies according t o the 
domains. It was necessary for us to embed available technologies within student‘s daily life, which 
supports their practices, goals and communities and keep themselves connected.  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[9] Artificial Intelligence is considered a well -known field in computer science and its capable of 
enhancing human life in many areas. AI can prevent, detect, diagnose, and even treat disease. 
Artificial intelligence is extensively used in the treatment of severe diseases like cancer, neurology, 
cardiology, and diabetes. AI is capable of spotting problems and life threats to patients due to high 
accuracy and speed. In current scenarios, machine learning which is a subset of artificial intelligence 
can save lives of many patients.  [10] Artificial I ntelligence with its cognitive abilities has proved 
itself as a powerful tool which helps with various analysis techniques to the existing healthcare 
services. Many medical areas like cancer, neurology and cardiology take artificial intelligence as an 
assisting instrument after the progressive development. Machine learning and deep learning which 
are the subsets of artificial intelligence handle structured healthcare data and unstructured datasets 
managed by Natural Language Processing, etc. [11] Recently r esearchers of Human -computer 
interaction studied various applications of AI and proposed various principals for a safe and reliable 
interaction experience. These AI systems can be further improved by increasing the number of 
collaborations with various med ical departments and organizations. Healthcare Appliances 
embedded with Artificial Intelligence can perform as good as human doctors in terms of medical 
image data analysis.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[12] With the rapid development in the technologies in this generation of ‗Internet and AI‘ triggered 
a profound change in the existing models, means and the whole ecosystem of manufacturing 
industry. These days intelligent manufacturing is encouraged by integrating Artificial Intelligence 
with information and communication technology, manufacturing, and other related domains. For any 
nation manufacturing industry is the major source of national economy, security, and development.  
[13] In the recent years, Artificial Intelligence has become a cr ucial thing for accelerating the 
development of intelligent industrial manufacturing.Advanced concepts of artificial intelligence like 
deep neural networks and machine learning are used these days to support diagnostics and predictive 
maintenance of the en tire process. AI is considered as a critical technology which can lead to further 
evolution of industrial manufacturing. There are three major aspects of production monitoring like 
fault diagnosis, useful life prediction, and quality inspection where artif icial intelligence is Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
199 applicable.[14] Artificial Intelligence is having major influence on manufacturing and production 
processes. Multiple Researches are going on all around the globe due to which we were able to see 
tremendous growth in artificial intell igence in recent years. Most of it focused majorly on the 
varieties of AI technologies, and less on pre -requisites for adoption of AI at corporate level. That is 
the reason for the consistent struggles which many companies still face while implementingarti ficial 
intelligence in their production. When it comes to the implementation of AI in production factors 
like digital skills, company size, and R&D intensity plays a crucial role.  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
[15] When it comes to artificial intelligen ce in security and surveillance, China is one of the first 
country in this domain due to their vision of applying AI technologies to build an ever -growing and 
trustworthy surveillance state. They created a novel model of network authoritarianism. Xinjiang a 
western part of China can be considered as a real -life experiment - in this area individual freedom, 
liberty, and security is not there. It is being replaced by the state surveillance system. Facial 
recognition software is considered as an essential tech nology in Mongolia for management of 
prisoners in high security prisons. Chinese company Sense Time specializes in AI and Face 
Recognition domain and they are striving to achieve innovation supremacy.  [16] The learning 
approach that we human beings use to obtain knowledge is imitated by Deep Learning which is a 
subset of artificial intelligence. Previously, human supervision was neededwith all surveillance 
systems but now with advancements we have seenCCTV (closed circuit television) based theft 
detection a long with tracking of various objects. Image processing is used to detect theft and motion, 
without using motion sensors. Major emphasis on object detection and real -time tracking and 
analysis of every action.  [17] Currently, Artificial intelligence is get ting its pace in the industrial 
builds. AI technique used in cyber -attacks seems to be quite difficult, due to its self -learning 
capabilities AI is a major problem to the cyber world. Most of the time, AI enabled cyber -attacks are 
performed with the help o f advanced malware which consist of advanced invasion techniques to 
crack the security of the system.  
 
AI in Education  
[18] Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), International Society for Computing have codes 
of ethics that can be used for the develop ment of Artificial Intelligence Systems for education. It can 
be also applied towards the development of various computer systems in general but AI systems for 
education is a specific application of it. We need to understand that AI in education can lead u s to 
potential for harm which cannot be ignored, so we need to use compassionate and wise principles 
during the implementation.  [19] The major concern for Artificial Intelligence in education is that 
there is an absence of sociological thinking within the field itself because of many external and 
structural pressures on education systems. Let us take an example, if AI systems for personalised 
learning is introduced into a sector of education where there is lack of resources and qualified 
teachers, there is a possibility of exploitation of the provided technology. Apart from these concerns, 
AI has its own benefits that are self -reinforcing: It will reduce teachers‘ workload and this will 
increase the recruitment rate.  [20] By Implementing Artificial Intellige nce, Educational technologist 
are figuring out ways to create convenient teaching tools that consists of ideas of more encouraging 
environments that can offer instructional approaches, various representation of given learning 
materials and variety of begin ner support tools. Recently, educational environments like Udemy, ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
200 Coursera, etc are developed that not only stores and uses large amount of data, but also provides the 
flexibility to the users while learning on their platform.  [21] If AI enabled systems ar e successful, 
then it will also lead to the most significant social challenge that AI in general has already brought - 
the consistent replacement of jobs and occupations with brilliant algorithms and robots. For 
implementation of Artificial Intelligence in  education has been the subject of academic research for 
more than 30 years. To promote the development of convenient learning environment and various 
other educational tools that are personalised, flexible, effective, and easy to use.  
 
Advantages of Artif icial Intelligence  
[22] Artificial Intelligence provides every learner their own personalised learning experience, 
teachers are provided with their own AI teaching assistant, consistent support to keep learning on 
track and intelligent support for collabor ative learning.  [23] Artificial Intelligence provide us with 
the advantages reliability and cost -effectiveness. AI technologies which are currently in use include 
converting traffic sensors into intelligent agents that can automatically detect accidents an d useful in 
prediction of traffic conditions.  [24] Artificial Intelligence can solve stressful and complex problems 
that humans may not be able to do. AI can complete assigned task much faster than a human being. 
Error possibilities are reduced to almost n ull with the help of proper implementation of AI.  [25] 
Artificial Intelligence make decisions based on data rather than emotions. AI enabled machines does 
not require any sleep, thus increasing productivity of a workspace. Within AI itself it is easier to 
spread knowledge.  [26] Currently, Artificial Intelligence techniques are quite efficient in fashion 
companies as they deal with different data with many complex connections and dependencies 
between them. AI used in fashion industry covers a wide scope from  design support systems to 
fashion recommendation systems through intelligent tracking systems, textile quality control, 
decision making, socialising and fashion e -marketing, etc.  
 
Challenges or Disadvantages of AI  
[27] Artificial Intelligence can replace human jobs. If AI is not programmed properly then it can 
malfunction and do opposite to what it is supposed to do. AI can be misused leading to mass 
destruction and it may corrupt younger generations.  [28] Due to Artificial Intelligence 
unemployment proble ms are increased. AI lacks the human touch and requires a lot of time and 
money. AI can increase the technological dependency of any organization.  [29] Artificial 
Intelligence lacks creativity in responses, malfunctioning can result in failure of AI and le ad to 
various problems. AI is unable to explain the logic and reasoning in certain scenarios.  [30] Machines 
equipped with AI takes a lot of effort and resourcesas equipment's are also expensive. Repairing or 
customising a pre -existing machine again takes t ime and money. Unemployment issues are 
increasing rapidly due to the Artificial Intelligence. Machines are unable to develop a bond with 
humans which is a critical part of Team Management.  [31] Artificial Intelligence is becoming a 
major reason for loss of  jobs in various industries, lacks human touch and emotional intelligence 
when we consider its application in field of medicine.  
 
Conclusion  
In my opinion, Artificial Intelligence is getting everywhere. Its application could be seen in 
Healthcare Industry , Manufacturing &  Production, Fashion Technology, Education, Security and 
Surveillance, etc. And it continues to evolve as more research is being currently going on Artificial Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
201 Intelligence. AI has become the most trending topic of discussion when we talk a bout Computer 
Science in general. More companies are focusing on improving AI in their products and systems to 
overall make a better User Experience (UX). Whether it be Google Assistant or Siri or Alexa or any 
other virtual assistant all are based on the c oncept of Artificial Intelligence.AI assistance improved 
radiologists‘ performance in distinguishing coronavirus disease 2019 pneumonia from non -
coronavirus disease 2019 pneumonia at chest CT (Computed Tomography). Nowadays even video 
games are using AI, w hich serves to improve game -player experience rather than machine learning 
or decision making. AI has a bright future ahead.  
 
Reference s 
Aiken, R. M., & Epstein, R. G. (2000). Ethical guidelines for AI in education: Starting a 
conversation. International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education , 11, 163 -176. 
Amisha, P. M., Pathania, M., & Rathaur, V. K. (2019). Overview of artificial intelligence in 
medicine. Journal of family medicine and primary care , 8(7), 2328.  
Andriessen, J., & Sandberg, J. (1999). Where is education heading and how about AI. International 
Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education, 10(2), 130 -150. 
Arivudainambi, D., KA, V. K., & Visu, P. (2019). Malware traffic classification using principal 
component analysis and artif icial neural network for extreme surveillance. Computer 
Communications , 147, 50-57. 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence. Ai Magazine, 26(4), 53 -53. 
Charniak, E. (1985). Introduction to artificial intelligence . Pearson Education India.  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of  artificial intelligence. Artificial 
intelligence applications to critical transportation issues, 6(3), 360 -375. 
Davies, H. C., Eynon, R., & Salveson, C. (2021). The mobilisation of AI in education: A 
Bourdieusean field analysis. Sociology, 55(3), 539 -560. 
Ding, H., Gao, R. X., Isaksson, A. J., Landers, R. G., Parisini, T., & Yuan, Y. (2020). State of AI -
based monitoring in smart manufacturing and introduction to focused section. IEEE/ASME 
Transactions on Mechatronics , 25(5), 2143 -2154.  
Husbands, P., Harvey , I., Cliff, D., & Miller, G. (1997). Artificial evolution: A new path for 
artificial intelligence? Brain and cognition , 34(1), 130 -159. 
Kakadiya, R., Lemos, R., Mangalan, S., Pillai, M., & Nikam, S. (2019, June). Ai based automatic 
robbery/theft detection  using smart surveillance in banks. In 2019 3rd International 
conference on Electronics, Communication and Aerospace Technology (ICECA)  (pp. 201 -
204). IEEE.  
Kaul, V., Enslin, S., & Gross, S. A. (2020). History of artificial intelligence in medicine. 
Gastro intestinal endoscopy , 92(4), 807 -812. 
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review. International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3  
Kinkel, S., Baumgartner, M., & Cherubini, E. (2021). Prerequisites for the adoption of AI 
technologies in manufacturing –Evidence from a worldwide sample of manufacturing 
companies. Technovation , 102375.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
202 Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review. Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
Luckin, R., Holmes, W., Griffiths, M., & Forcier, L. B. (2016). Intelligence unleashed: A n argument 
for AI in education.  
Luckin, R., Holmes, W., Griffiths, M., & Forcier, L. B. (2016). Intelligence unleashed: An argument 
for AI in education.  
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?  
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and it s applications in Libraries. In Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of Defence Delhi.  
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial In telligence and its applications in Libraries. In Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of Defence Delhi.  
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Newell, A. (1982). Intellectual issues in the history of artificial intelligence . CARNEGIE -MELLON 
UNIV PITTSBURGH PADEPT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE.  
Nilsson, N. J. (2009). The quest for artificial intelligence . Cambridge University Press.  
Romaniuk, S., & Burgers, T. (2018). How China‘s AI Technology Exports Are Seeding 
Surveillance Societies Globally. The Diplomat , 18. 
Satpathy, S., Nandan Mohanty, S., Chatterjee, J. M., & Swain, A. (2021 ). Comprehensive Claims of 
AI for Healthcare Applications -Coherence Towards COVID -19. In Applications of Artificial 
Intelligence in COVID -19 (pp. 3 -18). Springer, Singapore.  
Spector, L. (2006). Evolution of artificial intelligence. Artificial Intelligence , 170(18), 1251 -1253.  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Thomassey, S., & Zeng, X. (2018). Introduction: Artificial Intelligence for Fashion Industry in the 
Big Data Era. In Artificial intelligence for fashion industry in the big data era  (pp. 1 -6). 
Springer, Singapore.  
Wang, D., Maes, P., Ren, X., Shneiderman,  B., Shi, Y., & Wang, Q. (2021, May). Designing AI to 
Work WITH or FOR People? In Extended Abstracts of the 2021 CHI Conference on Human 
Factors in Computing Systems  (pp. 1 -5). 
 
 
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
203 AUGMENTED REALITY -AN ALTERNATE LIVING  
 
SHRAYANTH  SS 
 
NARENDHARAN  K 
 
RAHUL P 
Email ID: shrayanth.ss@gmail.com  
 
Abstract  
Report based on Augmented Reality strategy, a systematic discipline which can be applied to practical life 
improving each of the industrial productive life. A brief conception on how augmented reality can be used as 
your personal assistant. The objective of the concept does not force any selective industrial application but 
essentially the pursuit of all the applications to gain control, productivity, experience to the highest possibility 
in the contribution o f this technology Augmented reality.  Augmented Reality is the technology that has an 
impeccable impact in all fields, industrial, education, medicine, military, tourism and so forth. The areas of 
improvement, advantages and detriments, have been taken a shot at in this report. The paper covers the cause 
and the historical backdrop of Augmented Reality, its working, highlights, and necessities. AR is the key 
technology solving all the imaginary assumptions, is what one would understand eyeballing this repo rt. 
Keywords:  augmented reality , NAVICAM, laproscopic surgery, head mounted display  
 
Introduction  
Computers have assumed vital part in the advancement of people since the season of its innovation.  
They have experienced huge progressions ideal from Vacuum t ubes to Artificial Intelligence for 
effective connection with clients. The cooperation between the virtual world and the ‗true‘ Earth is 
the key point in the innovative advancement of computers. Virtual reality (VR) and Augmented 
reality (AR) are the parts  of concise edition of the virtual world and human condition.  
 AR in the immediate future would be unified with the abundance of application that makes good 
things leading to better lives that would be truly vital .Virtual reality puts the users in a 3 -
Dimensional environment that stimulates authentic -time environment and Augmented reality 
integrates digital information with the user‘s environment. Augmented reality is driven by the 
conception to merge graphics, audio and other sensory factors on the real t ime environment. 
Augmented Reality alters one‘s speculation of a real -world environment.  Augmentation largely 
works on two terms, one of which is hybrid reality and the other - computer mediated reality.  
 Hybrid Reality refers to the combining of both real and virtual worlds to give us a new vision of 
the nature. There is a co -existence and interaction of real and virtual environments. This sanctions us 
to integrate or subtract information from or even lets us shape the reality with compact technology 
like h and held contrivances. Such contrivances can even include Smartphone or smart watches . 
 Initial applications of Augmented Reality focused on gaming, until the realization of their uses 
on a broader area. Augmented Reality has a wide versatility is medical training and surgeries. It 
additionally is highly utilized in education, business, tourism, manufacture and a lot more fields in 
today‘s world.  
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
204 Literary Survey  
[1] In contrast to Virtual Reality, where the user is inside a synthetic environment, Augmented 
Reality superimposes virtual objects to the environment. AR can be characterized by the following 
aspects: combining real and synthetic world, interactive and 3D registration. Augmented Reality has 
a wide range of applications in several fields o f today‘s world like medicine, manufacture, 
annotation, education, robotics, entertainment, military and many more.  
 Doctors would be able to use AR to envisage human bodies for study and surgery. It would 
become easy to draft 3D datasets of a patient, wit h the use of non -invasive sensors like the MRI, CT 
and Ultrasound. This will be effective in minimal invasive surgeries and will reduce traumas in 
surgeries by very small incisions or no incision at all. The problem faces by surgeons today is that 
the smal l incisions do not provide a detailed internal view of the patient. The use of AR would help 
doctors perform critical operations more efficiently.  
 AR will also be useful in medical training purposes. Novice surgeons would be able to get 
virtual instructio ns without the need to divert from the patient for a manual. AR would also help 
identify organs and assist surgeons at the course of the surgery. There are several researchers 
working towards developing the application of AR in medical industry. A research  group has carried 
out experiments of using ultrasound sensor to scan the womb of a pregnant woman. The information 
was processed to generate a 3 -D representation of the fetus, at UNC Chapel Hill. The main objective 
was to allow the surgeons get a detailed  visual of the fetus. Further, recent studies have focused on a 
needle biopsy of a breast tumor.  
 [2] The 1950‘s marked the period of initial development of AR. Morton Heilig, a 
cinematographer saw that cinema was an entity that could draw viewers into the  onscreen activity. 
In 1962, he built a prototype described as, ―The Cinema of the future‖ which predated digital 
computing.  
 The Head Mount Display was invented by Ivan Sutherland in 1966. He came up with an optical 
see-through head mounted display, whic h was the first step taken toward augmentation. From then 
onwards, a series of inventions and discoveries on the field of augmented reality led to what we have 
today.  
 The devices that constitute to an augmented reality system are displays, input devices, tracking 
devices and computers. The displays used are of three types: head mounted displays, which could be 
worn as a part of a helmet; hand held displays, which could be a digital device like a smart phone 
and spatial displays, which make use of projector s, holograms, etc.  AR systems could use a wide 
range of input devices like gloves (used by s Reitmayr et. al.‘s mobile augmented system), wireless 
wristbands (by ReachMedia), etc. Smart phones themselves substitute as pointing devices. For 
example the Goog le Sky Map is an application designed such that the user has to point his 
Smartphone in towards stars and planets which he would like to learn about.  
 [3] The need for computers has become inevitable for the current era. The people in this world 
today are being existed in two different worlds, the true Earth and the digital world which are 
entirely different.  
 Augmented reality makes the digital world understand the working of the real world and allows 
digital and real world interact with each other. This i s often termed as Augmented Interaction. This 
interaction makes sure that it reduces the complexity of computer manipulations which even allows 
people with less computer knowledge to use it. A few attempts have been taken to produce 
prototypes in which one  of it is NAVICAM (NAVIgationCAMera). This NAVICAM has a small Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
205 video camera in it which detects the real world situations and that makes user experience the 
generated informations applied to the real world. The voice command which is added to this 
technolo gy makes people feel as if they are having an actual person with them who guides him/her 
whenever required.  
 The main aim of this technology is to recognize the intention of the user and react accordingly. 
But since it is just the beginning of this techno logical transformation, the situations are just a clue to 
the machines. If these proposed prototypes come to practicality, there would be a drastic change in 
the human lifestyle.  
 [4] Apart from saying that education is a must for everyone, now the scenari o has changed that 
everyone gets an insight on most of what they can make out so that they survive among the wittiest. 
People often incline to facilely acquire knowledge through practical ways rather than theoretical 
way of work -place. Now the education sy stem is craving for the advancement in technology, which 
paves the way for augmented reality.  
 At present the society has a perplexity to choose from digital and the real world where they can 
involve themselves. But Augmented Reality makes them into a single existence where people can 
get an immense experience out of it. The use of augmented reality  in education makes people study 
sundry concepts practically without even using the required apparatus. The interface that students 
get to use turns out to be an authentic experience.  
 For example when medical students are in need to get an experience on surgery, the surgeon can 
actually guide the learner to do the surgery by step wise instruction using augmented reality. Here 
the surgeon need not even be there. The 3 -D image of the surgeon‘s hand can actually be sent out 
into the space where the surgery i s taking place so that the student gets an overall experience. When 
students are working with machine -like copies made to scale, they can get a complete overview 
about the structure and the parts of the machine without evening opening the machine.  
 It even  makes kids reading stories interactive where the characters can be brought to life through 
a holographic projection.  
 [5] Augmented Reality has been widely used because of its‘ features in a variety of fields such 
as manufacturing, design, technology presentations, or clinical psychology. In the educational 
domain, researchers are actively working to develop AR in learning.  
 In 2010, Johnson, et al. stated, ―AR has strong potential to provide both powerful contextual, 
on-site learning experiences and s erendipitous exploration and discovery of the connected nature of 
information in the real world.‖Augmented Reality has been applied to education and business for 
experimentation. Even though it has not made an impact in education and other fields as much a s 
classic methods since the last two decades, today‘s technology makes AR competent and compact 
enough to deliver AR in corporate settings and education through personal computers.  
 In the field of business, AR can be implemented in several areas. It would  help give assistance 
to employees working with highly complex machines the industry. The use of AR in vehicles and 
military would also be quite helpful. As for its use in education, AR would drive students to learn 
better in practical application with mor e details and clear picture of the subject. There has been 
tremendous development on implementing AR on these fields. It is just a matter of time until which 
AR would be a basic requirement on the industries.  
 [6] The field of surgery requires the utilizat ion of AR for the advancement of effective results. 
One of the main issues that people are facing currently is the lack of skilled doctors. And sometimes 
even if the surgeon turns out to be adept, the need of technology arises. Improvement of technology ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
206 in the field of healthcare is adequate for the current era. The Google Glass contrivance is recently 
being used in the field of surgery for the betterment of the outcome. This was tested in several 
medical centers before coming into practicality. Utilizing t his technology, a surgeon who is far away 
can guide the medico who is giving effect to the surgery. The experience would be as if the remote 
surgeon is actually present there where the surgery is taking place. This was made possible by the 
utilization of G oogle Glass.  
 There were many successful outcomes of which one was the surgery of a sixty six year old 
man‘s shoulder bone. But as this was the first version prototype, the surgeons had to face the 
quandaries caused by this technology. The problems were v iewing angles which did not match 
through being without error, the battery drain, poor audio quality and as such. So the industry 
expects to have a range of observation of getting well and a scope of amendment in such 
technologies for the betterment of hea lthcare industry.  
 [7] Augmented reality requires a special requisite where the structure is engendered by the 
computer graphics and are linked with the scenes that are visually perceived by the humans i.e. the 
position of the scene and the computer genera ted graphics have to match. For e.g. AR is used to 
guide the mechanics who repair the aircraft parts during aircraft maintenance. During inspection of 
the aircraft an object known as ―Head  Mounted Display‖ also known as HMD is used.  
 This HMD works on the substructure of AR and is used to view the plane‘s blue print in a 
virtual view generated by the computer graphics. This HMD  is used by service engineers during the 
time of inspection. Similarly the HMD can be used by surgeons to perform surgery as HMD 
produces the blue print of the organs so that the surgeons are able to do the surgery without any 
difficulties.  
 The latest challenge of AR in view of medicine is the development of ―Computer Aided 
Surgery‖ (CAS) which guides the surgeon to perform surgery. I t works on method of intra operative  
image processing which belongs to the field of AR. The benefit of using CAS is that it makes 
surgeon concentrate more easily on the surgery in lieu of visually perceiving the monitor.  
 [8] Augmented reality is nowadays used in Laproscopic surgery so that it is comfortable for 
surgeons who perform surgeries without optically canvassing the monitors which are present to 
designate the positions of organs and the instruments used during the surgery.  
 Here the framework conta ins a head which has a six degree liberation, it additionally uses 3D 
visualization and also extracts laproscopicimages . Here the system produces a real and virtual image 
which is actually merged and is visible in the surgeon‘s head mounted exhibit. By usi ng AR 
technologies we can reduce the problems which are caused by laproscopy.  
 [9] Augmented Reality technology proves to be useful in a lot of fields like education, business, 
entertainment, etc. Along with these, it additionally proves to be subsidiary i n tourism, to amend 
tourist experience to a great extent. As for the field of tourism, AR would prove to be highly useful 
to both the organizations as well as the tourists. The service providers would be able to reach a 
wider range of audience by implement ing AR to deliver overwhelming media content and 
information. AR would give the tourists immense entertainment and contentment by sanctioning 
them to get facile information and cognizance about their circumventions instantly.  
 Web servers, internet service , database for information, location based AR applications, GPS, 
high CPU speed, graphics, considerable RAM are all requirements for the use of AR in tourism. The 
use of Smartphone would cover most of the requirements above and is quite compact for efficie nt 
use. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
207  [10] When it comes to tourism, Augmented Reality plays a decisive role. The most prevalent 
problems faced by the tourists are habituating to their tourist spots. People generally get perplexed 
with the language, history of that place and sometimes  they don‘t even know what  that place is. 
Here utilizing Augmented Reality ascertains an availing hand for those who seek it. As previously, 
for using Augmented Reality, there is no need of any separate device. It can be embedded in your 
mobile phones and be handy to the users. People get acquainted with the details on the places they 
visit, location details, etc.  
 But there some problems associated with the use of this technology like the lack of visualization 
of the content. Sometimes circumscribed exhibi t content additionally engenders a disadvantage.  
 
Findings  
The research of this analysis has brought a high level of clarity of purpose with this overwhelming 
technology Augmented Reality. Initially it was thought that Augmented Reality is a concept under 
development and that it has an exceptionally slender territ ory of utilizations, constrained to 
amusement and gaming. It was additionally taken that the study of Augmented Reality is not taken 
to a very great extent and has very less people working on it.  
 In the study, it was found that it had great potential in the field of healthcare and creation of 
Augmented Reality dated back to the 1960‘s and had its first use in cinemas. The study was done on 
the working principles, technological requirements, feasibility and uses. The areas of application 
covered in the pre paration of this journal are education, business, medicine, tourism, entertainment, 
day to day domestic uses, etc. The developments of this technology for future uses were also 
studied. This journal  helped in understanding the growth of technology and its impact in day to day 
life. 
 
Recommendation & Conclusion  
The next step of this journey of AR would be not out of willingness,  that being highly indispensible 
to apply the proficient skillset to multiple processes for e.g. projectors with holographic image 
sensing technology where it allows users to work with virtual objects as precise as the real objects. 
Enhancing the concept of  completely hands -free driving technology. It would help configuration 
precisely fit generation for real time uses.  
 Augmented reality is the innovation that clears approach to different extraordinary potential 
outcomes and will be inexhaustibly required later on. If education system completely utilizes 
Augmented Reality, then learning would turn out to be most intriguing, intelligent and simple rather 
than a sophisticated study of books and theory.  
 
References  
Azuma, R. T. (1997). A survey of augmented reality.  Presence: Teleoperators& Virtual 
Environments , 6(4), 355 -385. 
Billinghurst, M. (2002). Augmented reality in education.  New horizons for learning , 12(5). 
Carmigniani, J., Furht, B., Anisetti, M., Ceravolo, P., Damiani, E., &Ivkovic, M. (2011).Augme nted 
reality technologies, systems and applications.  Multimedia tools and applications , 51(1), 
341-377. 
Fuchs, H., Livingston, M. A., Raskar, R., Keller, K., Crawford, J. R., Rademacher, P., & Meyer, A. 
A. (1998, October). Augmented reality visualization f or laproscopic surgery. In 
International Conference  on Medical Image Computing and Computer -Assisted 
Intervention(pp. 934 -943).  Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
208 Kounavis, C. D., Kasimati, A. E., & Zamani, E. D. (2012). Enhancing the tourism experience 
through mobile augmented reality: Challenges and prospects.  International Journal of 
Engineering Business Management , 4, 10. 
Lee, K. (2012). Augmented reality in education and training.  TechTrends , 56(2), 13 -21. 
Ploder, O., Wagner, A., Enislidis, G., & Ewers, R. (1995). Computer -assisted intraoperative 
visualization of dental implants. Augmented reality in medicine.  Der Radiologe , 35(9), 569 -
572. 
Ponce, B. A., Menendez, M. E., Oladeji, L. O., Fryberger, C. T., &Dantuluri, P. K. (2014). 
Emerging technology in surgi cal education: combining real -time augmented reality and 
wearable computing devices.  Orthopedics , 37(11), 751 -757. 
Rekimoto, J., & Nagao, K. (1995, December). The world through the computer: 8th annual ACM 
symposium on User interface and software technolog y (pp. 29 -36). ACM.  
Yovcheva, Z., Buhalis, D., &Gatzidis, C. (2012). Smartphone augmented reality applications for 
tourism.  E-review of tourism research (ertr) , 10(2), 63 -66. 
 
 
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
209 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, A REVOLUTIONARY  
STEP TOWARDS LIFE  
 
TANISHQ METHI  
B. Tech Computer Science and Engineering  
Email ID: tanishq.methi2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What  is Artificial  Intelligence?  
[1] The Process of making intelligent machines using science and technology especially  computer 
related programs is called Artificial In telligence. Its equivalent to similar task  in which Artificial 
Intelligence is able to understand and do the work as and according to human intelligence. [2] 
Artificial Intelligence is the field of engineering in computer  science that attempts to build 
intelligence according to a human mind in computers andmachines.AI  is an activity  that makes  
computer  intelligent  according  to a human  mind.  Artificial Intelligence has become a part of our life 
and one cannot imagine life without AI. [3] The main objective of using Artificial Intelligence is not 
only to identify the problems but also to solve them in order to ease the work load of a human. 
Today, Artificial Intelligence is used in each and every domain like healthcare, education, security 
and surveillance, and many more.  
 
History  of Artificial  Intelligence  
[4] The history of AI is traced according to imagination, philosophy and fiction. Early  inventions in 
the field of engineering and electronics influenced AI. [5] In 1950, AI was first  described by Alan 
Turing but several issues and limitations in early models prevented its  acceptance  all over  the world.  
Many  of these  issues  and limitations  were some  how sorted  in early 2000s by deep research and 
learning. Today Ai systems are even capable to  analyze any kind of complex -to-complex problem 
and solve it according to a human  mind.  Today  in almost  all the fields  weare  using  AI in some  way 
or the other. In 1950, Alan Turing was the first one who described the concept of using computers 
that can stimulate critical thinking and intelligent behavior. Later Turing described a simple test in a 
book Computers and Intelligence in order to determine whether human intelligence can be used by a 
computer or not.  
 
Growth  of AI 
[6] Today AI is used in almost every sector be it be educational, medical, financial  sectors. It has 
even contributed in the economy of different nations and even in  manufacturing and production of 
Multinational companies and even small -scale  businesses to some extent. [7] Artificial Intelligence 
in healthcare has proven to be a revolutionary step not only in medicines but also in surgeries. We 
can see robotics  working on principle of Artificial  Intelligence in  management  and in scientific  
sectors.  Growth  of Artificial  Intelligence  can be seen by the fact that it has been used to minimize 
traffics jams on roads by the help of  sensors . [8] First described in 1950 , Artificial Intelligence in 
early models had some limitations due to which its acceptance was prevented widespread in the field 
of medicine specially. But now with advancement in Artificial Intelligence (AI) with the advent of 
deep learning most of these limitations has been overcome in the early 2000s. We have entered a 
new age in medicine where AI systems, with its continuous development, are well capable of 
analyzing complex to complex algorithms and through risk assessment models, AI can be applied in 
healthcare practice in order to improve workflow efficiency, and diagnostic accuracy.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
210 Artificial  Intelligence  in Health  Care Appliances  
[9] Artificial Intelligence and related technologies were already being used in businesses  and 
education sector but today it has been in a major role even in healthcare sectors.  These  technologies  
have  much  potential  to help and enhance  in the care of the patient  and ease the work load of doctors 
and other medical staffs. Many researches shows that  AI can perform as efficient as or even more 
than a human mind in order to diagnose a  disease  or in other  health  care system.[10]we  would  never  
have  thought  that science  and technology will develop so much that one day it will be used in health 
care which is the most difficu lt job as any small mistake might result in even losing the patient. 
Artificial Intelligence in the sector of healthcare has gone under so many advancements that we 
cannot even think of healthcare without use of AI in it.  
 [11] There are wide  applications  of AI in health  care starting  from  organizing  patient  routes  to 
providing  better  treatment tactics. In the case of AI, they are not bothered by the number of patients 
and stretch work hours. For providing right diagnosis AI uses arithmetic algorithms along  with using  
data science  from the human  body.  By using  AI for drug  discovery this  process  which  was 
expensive  and tedious earlier  has now become  cheaper  and quicker.  
 
Artificial  Intelligence  in Manufacturing  and Production  
[12] With the growing population the demand for products is increasing and so the  development of 
manufacturing industries is also increasing. These industries are  supporting  pillars  of any nation.  AI 
has provided  a great  boost  in these  industries  whether  it would be a matter of management , security, 
and production and fault detection.  
 [13]Sustainable manufacturing that is now a very growing topic is achievable because of  
machine learning which is the result of AI. Because of the introduction of these now  industries are 
focusing more on smart work which involves computerized machines  undertaking processes of 
packaging, fault detection, and maintaining records. Work has  become a lot faster and feasible.  
 [14] Developed countries like the US have also taken  steps in this modern direction. Also, China 
has drafted many policies in their country for  intelligent manufacturing. Some examples of reforms 
can be said with industry 4. 0 in  which  cyber  physical  systems  form  the basis  of this industry.  
 
Artificial  Intelligence  in Security  and Surveill ance  
[15] AI has also proved its importance in law enforcement. To catch criminals and also to  save 
people‘s lives. Because of the development of software like face recognition, police  can now 
identify the criminals from any previous records. [16] CCTV cam eras are the  basic example of AI in 
which we can monitor our houses or offices from anywhere in the  world on our phone also in traffic 
because of the sensors present there are now low  chances of road jam and accidents.[17] Today 
surveillance facilities are  also facilitated by Artificial  intelligence, for example  in detecting whether 
a person is entering a restricted area or if  there is any illegal or unusual activities happening at a 
place under surveillance. AI uses  the surveillance  data to ensure  that the person has  paid for the 
parking or not at places where parking is paid.  Countries  like the  US and China have developed 
millions of surveillance cameras at almost every place in their country and are leading in this  field.  
China is  also supplying  AI based technologies  to at least60countries.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Education  
[18] Advancement of Artificial Intelligence in Education has not only benefitted students but has 
also helped teachers. A teacher now can teach to his/ her student at any time and a t any place and Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
211 even while travelling. Gone are the times when students have to buy big bundles of books and take 
those to school or college in order to study. In this modern era of Artificial Intelligence, they can just 
download the study material on thei r mobiles, laptops, etc. and they can access them at any time and 
at any place without carrying the huge burden of books on their shoulders. And they can access 
information on any topic of this world by just searching it one internet.  
 [19] the current em erging fields in educational technologies is International Artificial 
Intelligence in Education Society (AIED) according to the 21st International Conference on 
Artificial Intelligence in Education held in 2020.  
 [20] Robotics are the best example of AI i n education. AI has helped in creation of Robots that 
not only ease the world of humans but by using that student can improve their learning experience. 
Robots which is an application of AI in Education can work with teachers in easing their work like 
evaluating the answer of students, teaching the student by showing visuals of that topic.  
 [21] There are many online platforms that enables students to prepare not only for school exams 
but also in different competitive exams. Some of the examples of these i nclude Topper, Physics 
Wallah, Byjus, etc.   
 [22] Initially computers and computer -related systems were the form of AI in education but 
today it is in the form of web -based and online education platform.  These systems have made it 
possible to used Robots, a form of humanoid that can do a lot of work on its own as programmed 
and ease the word of human, chat  bots which helps teaches in many ways as programmed. The use 
of these online platforms has made learning very easy on web. It has empowered teachers to t each at 
any time and from any place of the world. Similarly, AI has provided students with improved 
learning experiences because AI has enabled the customization and personalization of learning 
materials to the needs and capabilities of students.  
 
Advantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[23] Today AI is used in almost every sector be it be educational, medical, financial sectors. It has 
even contributed in the economy of different nations and even in manufacturing and production of 
Multinational compa nies and even small -scale businesses to some extent. Unlike Humans, AI can 
work 24/7 thus giving services to the desired customers at any time and at any place in this world.  
 [24] Artificial Intelligence had shown great productivity in medicines and even in surgeries. we 
can see robotics working on principle of Artificial Intelligence in management and in scientific 
sectors. Growth of Artificial Intelligence can be seen by the fact that it has been used to minimize 
traffics jams on roads because of sensors and all.  
 [25] Artificial Intelligence and related technologies were already being used in businesses and 
education sector but today it has been in a major role even in healt hcare sectors. These technologies 
have much potential to help and enhance in the care of the patient and also ease the work load of 
doctors and other medical staffs. Many researches shows that AI can perform as efficient as or even 
more than a human mind i n order to diagnose a disease or in other healthcare system.   
 [26] Machines working on the principle of Artificial intelligence do not require any kind of rest 
or sleep so that the wok can go on continuously without thinking about the tiredness that a hum an 
would have inherent during that work.  Today, AI is used in every field of robotics, industries, stock 
trading, NASA space station and even in our home. We cannot think of life without AI.  
 [27] There are wide applications of AI in healthcare starting f rom organizing patient routes to 
providing better treatment tactics. In the case of AI, they are not bothered by the number of patients ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
212 and stretch work hours. For providing right diagnosis AI uses arithmetic algorithms along with using 
data science from t he human body. By using AI for drug discovery this process which was 
expensive and tedious earlier has now become cheaper and quicker  
 [28] Advancement of Artificial Intelligence in Education has proved to be a revolutionary step 
as it not only has  benefit ted students but also helped teachers in easing their work of teaching. Now, 
A teacher can teach his or her student at any time in any part of world by the help of certain 
technical platforms that enables them to teach students all over the world.  
  
Challe nges or Dis -advantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[29] Development of AI also leads to a major concerning problem which is that it will become a 
cause of huge amount of unemployment as it will soon start to substitute humans in almost every 
field which mig ht lead to increased number of cases of crimes, poverty and depression.  
 [30] Artificial Intelligence lacks emotional and sentimental aspect and are merely able to build 
up a relationship between user and computer there are often regarded as black boxes. In some 
situations when solution to certain problems have to be given by emotional and sentimental aspect, 
these AI based search method won‘t be applicable.  
 [31] AI can be sometimes be a reason to mass scale destruction if it goes in wrong hands. By 
increasing development in AI, human jobs are affected.  
 [32] the AI based equipment‘s are very expensive it is not easily accessible to middle class and 
lower -class people. With automation of the bulk of work the human will become lazy. [33] AI has 
provided m any benefits in agriculture but still there are challenges in using these AI based 
technologies by farmers. because of lack of knowledge and lack of experience they still do much of 
the work manually which is very time consuming and which could have been d one faster and easily. 
So, we not only have to do development in the AI machines but also have to teach farmers how to 
use them.  
 
Conclusion  
Artificial Intelligence or simply AI has become a part of human life and life cannot be imagined 
without AI. AI is used in each and every domain, be it be in healthcare, or in security, be in 
education or be in manufacturing, we are surrounded by Artificial Intelligence. AI is used by 
students as well as teachers in online education, companies use AI to automate their system, AI in 
factories tells us when a part of the machinery could fail, thus helping the owner from bearing the 
looses caused by sudden failure of a part of machinery. AI is even used in healthcare. Student can 
study from any time and at any point of tim e, we can talk with our friends and family at any time 
and from any part in this world. But in contrast it has and is going to ruin the work of many labours 
as usage of AI there has and is going to replace the labour. Introduction of AI has made out life e asy 
but has also increased our dependance on computer software  and also became a reason for thousands 
of people  losing their job. In my opinion, development of AI has proved to be a revolutionary step 
and has made our  day-to-day work very easy but in order  to maximize its use, people have to 
become aware on how to use these technologies.  
 
References  
Abdulov, R. (2020). Artificial intelligence as an important factor of sustainable and crisis -free 
economic growth. Procedia Computer Science, 169, 468 -472. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
213 Abdulov, R. (2020). Artificial intelligence as an important factor of sustainable and crisis -free 
economic growth. Procedia Computer Science, 169, 468 -472. 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellege nce. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230. 
Bouletreau, P., Makaremi, M., Ibrahim, B., Louvrier, A., & Sigaux, N. (2019).Artificial intelligence: 
applications in orthognathic surgery. Journal of stomatology, oral and  maxillofacial  
surgery,120(4),  347-354. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence. AiMagazine ,26(4),53 -53. 
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review.  Ieee Access,  8, 
75264 -75278  
Chen ,H., & Wang,  F.Y.(2005).  Guesteditors'  introduction:  Artificial  intelligence  for homeland  
security. IEEE  intelligent  systems , 20(5),12 -16. 
Chen,  H., &Wang,  F.Y.(2005).  Guesteditors'  introduction:  Artificial  intelligence  for homeland  
security. IEEE intelligent systems , 20(5),12 -16. 
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues, 6(3), 360 -375 
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advan tages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues, 6(3), 360 -375 
Cioffi,  R., Travaglioni,  M., Piscitelli,  G., Petrillo,  A., & DeFelice,  F. (2020).  Artificial intelligence 
and machine le arning applications in smart production: Progress, trends and directions. 
Sustainability ,12(2),492.  
Davenport, T., & Kalakota, R. (2019). The potential for artificial intelligence in healthcare. 
Futurehealthcarejournal ,6(2),94.  
Davenport, T., & Kalakota, R . (2019). The potential for artificial intelligence in healthcare. Future 
healthcare journal, 6(2), 94  
Eli-Chukwu, N. C. (2019). Applications of artificial intelligence in agriculture: A 
review.  Engineering, Technology & Applied Science Research,  9(4), 437 7-4383.  
Goksel, N., & Bozkurt, A. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education: Current insights and future 
perspectives. In  Handbook of Research on Learning in the Age of Transhumanism  (pp. 224 -
236). IGI Global.  
Gong, S., Loy, C. C., & Xiang, T. (2011). S ecurity and surveillance. In Visual analysis of humans 
(pp.455 -472).Springer, London.  
Gong, S., Loy, C. C., & Xiang, T. (2011). Security and surveillance. In Visual analysis of humans 
(pp.455 -472).Springer, London.  
Holmes, W., Bialik, M., & Fadel, C. (2019 ). Artificial intelligence in education.  Boston: Center for 
Curriculum Redesign.  
Holmes, W., Bialik, M., & Fadel, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education.  Boston: Center for 
Curriculum Redesign.  
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A. , Frederick, K., & Scharre, P. (2018). Artificial 
intelligence and international security . Center for a New American Security.  
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., & Scharre, P. (2018). Artificial 
intelligence and international security . Center for a New American Security..  
Kaul, V., Enslin, S., & Gross, S. A. (2020). History of artificial intelligence in 
medicine.  Gastrointestinal endoscopy , 92(4), 807 -812. ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
214 Kaul,V.,  Enslin,S.,  & Gross,  S.A. (2020).  History of artif icial intelligence in medicine. Gastro 
intestinal endoscopy ,92(4),807 -812. 
Kengam, Jagadeesh. (2020). ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN EDUCATION. 
10.13140/RG.2.2.16375.65445  
Kesse, M. A. (2021). Artificial intelligence: a modern approach to increasing productivi ty and 
improving weld quality in TIG welding  
Kesse, M. A. (2021). Artificial intelligence: a modern approach to increasing productivity and 
improving weld quality in TIG welding  
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of A rtificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library & 
Information Science (IJLIS),  9(1), 3.  
Lee, J., Davari, H., Singh, J., & Pandhare, V. (2018). Industrial Artificial Intelligence for industry 
4.0-based manu facturing systems. Manufacturing letters ,18,20-23. 
Liu, J., Chang, H., Forrest, J.Y.L., & Yang, B.(2020).Influence of artificial intelligence on 
technological innovation: Evidence from the panel data of china's manufacturing sectors. 
Technological Forecast ing and Social Change , 158,120142  
manufacturing sectors. Technological Forecasting and Social Change , 158,120142  
McCarthy,J.(2007).What is artificial intelligence.  
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –are view.  
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Nilsson, N. J. (2009). The quest for artificial intelligence . Cambridge University Press.  
Roll, I, & Wylie, R.(2016), Evolution and revolution in artificial intelligence  in education. 
International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education, 26920, 582 -599 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016], 5(6)  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artifici al intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016], 5(6)  
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
21 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE A SUPER POWER  
 
S. SANJANA  
B.Tech Computer Science  
Email ID:  sanjana.s2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is artificial Intelligence  
[1] Artificial intelligence is the making of computer programs and intelligent machines from science 
and technology which are faster than human. It is a program which if made to work and analyse  on 
human intelligence.[2] Artificial intelligence is a software which mostly runs with minimum usage 
of human interruption because the program is completely designed by humans to work without any 
disturbance and no  one can stop it in between. It has first started with invention of robots. It is also 
called machine intelligence. Artificial Intelligence requires human intelligence.[3] Artificial 
Intelligence is a branch of computer science in which analysis a huge bun ch of complex medical 
data. Artificial intelligence has a potential through which we can exploit the connection within a 
data set which can be further used in diagnosis, treatment and can be used in predicting output in 
many clinical scenarios. Many Medlin e and internet searches  were carried out using the keyword 
‗Artificial Intelligence‘ and ‗Neural Networks (computer)‘.[4] Artificial Intelligence is the process 
of making machines intelligent and intelligence is the quality that enables a process to functi on 
properly which is compatible with the environment. According to the lines mentioned above -lot of 
things like human, animals and some of the machines are intelligent. Machines such as smart 
camera‘s.[5]Artificial Intelligence is the study of ideas which allow computers to do work that make 
human seem to be intelligent. The ultimate goal of Artificial Intelligence is to make computer 
system more usable(useful)  and to understand the main role and principle of intelligence which 
make it possible.  
 
History of  Artificial intelligence  
[6] The history of artificial intelligence involves fiction, ideology, philosophy and imagination of the 
inventors. The inventions which were made early like electronics, technology and many discipline 
have given idea for artifici al intelligence . The early achievements  which includes working on 
problem solving which includes basic work understanding  knowledge representation, demonstration 
of programs in understanding the language, proving theorems.  
 [7] Artificial intelligence first came up in 1950. There were a lot of limitations in models which 
were made early that prevented a widespread acceptance. Many of the limitations were accepted 
because of the intense learning in the early 2000‘s.[8] History of artificial intelligence is therefore is 
not only the history of mechanical attempts to replace the static notion of human intelligence but 
there is a changing account on which we think about the intelligence itself. Artificial Intelligence 
was not born at Dartmouth in 1955 becaus e the standard account would have made us believe but 
this participates in much longer histories of what we take into account as intelligence and which 
counts as artificial. For example is Phil Husbands, Owen Holland and Michael Wheeler‘s ―The 
Mechanical M ind in History (2008) situate symbolic processing of information at the end of a long 
history of mechanical theories of mind.[9] The research on Artificial intelligence start after WWII, 
when many number of people started working independently on intellige nt machines. Among them 
the first was the English mathematician Alan Turing. He gave a lecture on Artificial intelligence  in ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
22 1947. He was also the first to tell that Artificial Intelligence is the best researched program rather 
than investing time on build ing computers. By late 1950s there were so man researches who thought 
Artificial intelligence is an good investment and most of them were basing their work on computer 
programming.[10] Artificial Intelligence is not the first use of  computer systems in med icine. The 
Artificial Intelligence in the field of medicine emerged in the year 1970 in response to continuous 
needs ,opportunities and interests. There was a sudden demand for high -quality medical services 
with explosive growth of medical knowledge has le d to the demand that computer programs can be 
used to assist physicians and other health workers for their clinical roles in therapy and diagnosis.  
 
Growth of Artificial Intelligence  
[11] During the 19th century one evening William Paley made an assumption  and argued that there is 
a need for intelligent designer for the production of complex systems. At 1859 Charles Darwin 
refused Paley‘s idea. Charles Darwin showed Paley how complex systems can produce random 
variations from a process of selection which ca n arise naturally. Darwin showed that complex 
systems can be created without using intelligent designer. All the interesting features of biology and 
intelligence have been improved  through Darwin‘s process.[12] Artificial Intelligence is there for 
over six  decades. In recent years Artificial Intelligence has been empowered by super computing 
power and big data rapid  increase.  Artificial Intelligence has become an important and attractive 
topic for research. The new generation of  Artificial Intelligence is r apidly expanding.[13] The term 
Artificial intelligence was first pointed out by Mc Carthy in the year 1956 during a conference meet 
which was held on the subject Artificial Intelligence. Alan Turing was the one who first pointed out 
that machines can also follow the human behav iour, he created an Turing test to differentiate 
between computer machines and humans. From this point there came up something called 
computational power has grown up to instant calculations and the ability to evaluate new data 
according to previous access ed data in real time. Artificial Intelligence is involved in our daily lives 
in so many forms such as Siri, Alexa, Google assistant and many more. Inmost recent process 
Artificial Intelligence has also been included in the medical field to improve the qual ity of taking 
care of patient by speeding up the process and reaching an higher accuracy and enlightening the path 
in healthcare overall. Machine learning is evaluating medical record of patients, pathology slides 
and radiology images. By this way there wo uld be no mismatch of data.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare Appliances  
[14] Artificial Intelligence is slowly changing medical practice. It is expanding into fields which was 
early thought by human province. It has recently progressed in data acquisition, computing in 
infrastructure and machine learning. The technologies in artif icial intelligence and their biomedical 
applications are identifying the challenges for the progress in future. It‘s also summarising the 
economic and social implications.[15] Artificial Intelligence is aiming to imitate human functions 
and capabilities. I t‘s bringing a shift for healthcare by increasing its availability of data related to 
healthcare and there is a huge progress seen in analytics. This can be applied to various types of 
healthcare data both structured and unstructured. The Artificial Intell igence which are popular 
including machine learning method for all types of  structured data that is for neural networks and 
unstructured data for natural language processing. The major diseases which are covered by artificial 
intelligence are neurology, ca rdiology and cancer.[16] Artificial Intelligence has a huge amount of 
potential to improve the safety measures for healthcare. Artificial Intelligence is increasing its  
diagnostic accuracy , showing their outcomes of care and increasing their diagnostic ac curacy.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
23 The Artificial Intelligence  technologies are being upgrading to new risks and correcting the existing 
ones. [17] Artificial Intelligence techniques have a huge potential that it can be applied in every field 
of medicine. The most common analytical  tool which emerged from Artificial Intelligence was 
Artificial neural network. The other tools like fuzzy expert systems, evolutionary computation and 
hybrid intelligent systems are used in different clinical settings.  
  
Artificial Intelligence in Manufac turing and Production  
[18] Artificial Intelligence have given smart manufacturing benefits that monitors  analyses and 
makes an proper and better decision compare to human being. Smart manufacturing techniques has 
industrial connectivity devices and services, big data processing abilities and robotic software. This 
changes the way that the product are manufactured and packed. It has also given us sensor 
technology and improvement in computer methods. [19] Artificial Intelligence has given us a huge 
amount of core technologies in the new period of internet plus Artificial Intelligence  which is 
creating great changes in ecosystems, models and in the development of Artificial Intelligence. [20] 
The smart systems and Artificial Intelligence are playing an ever increasing and major  role in daily 
lives of human and countries growth. The production of Artificial Intelligence applications are 
continuously increasing day by day in manufacturing and production field.[21]The manufacturing  
systems which are present  today are increasing their complexity day -by-day and they are all are 
interconnected among themselves. The operations which are carried out in the factories are facing 
challenges of highly non linear due to many number of uncertainties and inter -dependenc ies that are 
present. The recent development in the field of Artificial Intelligence especially in the specialisation 
of Machine learning have shown transformation in the manufacturing sector through many of the 
advanced analytical  tools for processing the  huge amount of data generated also called as big data.  
 
Artificial Intelligence  in Security and Surveillance  
[22] Artificial Intelligence has its most importance and use in fighting against crime and strengthen 
our national security. Artificial Intellige nce is mainly used for making decision rapidly and piling up 
the huge amount of data , only Artificial Intelligence  can lead to success in these types of needs. 
Artificial Intelligence  also helps in forensics , varied decision drafting and creating plans. It analysis 
problems in short period of time in which an  human can do and increases the chances of getting 
output. [23] Artificial Intelligence has direct contribution in national security in so many countries. 
There are so many countries using their  own s trong  programs in Artificial In telligence with full 
protection . Kevin Kelly has notes that start -ups in normal business and Artificial Intelligence  are 
completely different. There is no comparison between application of Artificial Intelligence in 
Informati on Technology sectors, economic tools ,financial tools to that of security of an country.[24] 
The application of Artificial Intelligence  in camera surveillance has been adopted by various 
industries for smart manufacturing. Artificial Intelligence is so mu ch helpful to process and store 
large amount of video recordings. There are also various vision algorithms to detect abnormal 
behaviour thus reducing the human power. All these require a lot of computational resource.[25] 
Artificial Intelligence serves as a very big advantage and it is used widely in the field of cyber 
security as told by many leaders. It increased automation and reduced labour than the traditional 
human surveillance method. The more use of machine learning can accelerate this and adding 
sophisticated cyber capabilities. It is also used to invent new things in the cyber security and it can 
attack vectors.The role of  Artificial Intelligence in the field of Information security can reduce the 
leakage of confidential information. Artificial Int elligence can provide them new type of security.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
24 Artificial Intelligence in Education  
[26] Artificial intelligence in education includes many things like personalized instructional and 
dialogue system from basics through Artificial Intelligence  supported learning, helps in analysing 
the student writing, intelligent minds in the game based environment, there is chatbots for student 
support, Artificial Intelligence  facilitated instructors compatible with students that put them firmly 
in control of their own learning. These include student interacting one to one with computer systems 
and school approaches. The field of Artificial Intelligence is innovative and derivative in education 
system. It also brings new theories and methods from fields such as cognitive  science. These puts a 
light on learning, exploring new opportunities and gives a new way of teaching.[27] There has been 
a rapid increment of application of Artificial Intelligence in the education system. Artificial 
Intelligence is going over and the con ventional understanding of it as a super computer has to 
include embedded computer system. The creation of robots and which are embedded with Artificial 
Intelligence has improved the quality of learning for the students from the most basics of education. 
These robots are used to teach students like pronunciation, spelling an which include some of the 
basic tasks. There is a shift from just downloading materials from online and studying that to 
students have been adapted to web -based learning that is learn i nstructor and learner behaviour to 
adjust accordingly, to enrich the quality of learning. The application of Artificial Intelligence  
systems and algorithms is being increasing in education field. It can also identify place of the course 
which needs improve ment.[28] From the past 25 years, the Artificial Intelligence in education 
system has been focusing largely only on solving  two sigma problem by creating systems that are 
useful for one -on-one tutoring. All these years Artificial Intelligence has improved themselves and 
gradually taking steps towards their goal. The computer software's have improved a lot in helping 
students gaining knowledge and exploring things on internet. The introduction of 21st century skills 
and the new science standards have been on  spotlight and showed us the importance of general 
learning skills, collaborating and critical thinking. Artificial Intelligence can automate basic 
activities in education. The field of Artificial Intelligence  has to make certain changes like to 
maintain t he relevance and increase its impact in incorporating practises using huge problems in 
collaborative settings. These transitions in education are also an opportunity. Artificial Intelligence 
helps both students and teachers interact more comfortably with e ach other and with other AI 
present in the world. Both students and teachers are in need of better learning environment and 
personalized support. Artificial intelligence can help teachers in the grading process and from here 
time can be saved which can be utilised in some other work.  
 
Advantage of Artificial Intelligence  
[29] Artificial Intelligence supplies a good amount of advantage to the human beings like to 
stimulate human intelligence for solving problem and making  decision. It also provides the 
adva ntage of permanency, reliability and cost effectiveness. It takes less time to solve a problem or 
reach to a decision. Artificial Intelligence is applied in so many places like in the field of 
engineering, modelling, manufacturing, linguistics, controlling  applications and economics. The 
most promising use of Artificial Intelligence is that it is used as search engine in Internet. Artificial 
intelligence can make faster decision by automating the process of decision making process. 
Artificial Intelligence c an produce solutions to complex problemsthrough gathering data, screening 
,processing. Artificial Intelligence  are well capable of both qualitative and quantitative data, these 
methods are missing in analytical method.[30] Using Artificial Intelligence can  reduce human works 
that is replacing human being by machines and human beings can be engaged in other works. It is Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
25 used in programming, self -writing and self -modifying etc all these works can be a burden to human 
beings. Artificial Intelligence is like a cheap labour and by using this our works will get over soon 
and we can earn more profits in a short period of time. This can be deployed in industries and 
companies easily. Machines does not require short time breaks and lunch breaks like human beings 
and the money spent for these works can be saved. Machines work for a long period of time and 
they do not get bored. Artificial Intelligence  can be used in mining and other fuel activities because 
there is an danger for human life. ―Human beings can make new r obots but robots cannot make new 
human beings‖.[31] Artificial Intelligence can take up stressful and complex work that humas may 
struggle to do and cannot do. It can complete tasks faster than humans. It helps us to discover 
unexplored things like outer s pace. It does work with less errors and defects. Artificial Intelligence  
function is infinite. Computers provide us the perfect communication medium for experimentation 
in the present era. Artificial Intelligence  is more successful at intellectual tasks li ke computer based 
gaming and proving theorem which are difficult for human beings. [32] One of the major advantage 
of Artificial Intelligence  is that decisions are totally based on facts instead of emotions. Even after a 
lot of efforts human decision are a lways taken out of emotion or their mindset while doing their job 
which is negatively affected in our work this is an well known fact. It helps in easier spreading of 
facts and knowledge. Once a computer(artificial knowledge) is trained for something it ca n be so 
easily copied to other computers which reduces time instead of wasting time by spreading 
knowledge or teaching any other human through training. [33] Artificial intelligence has a very high 
success ratio because the program is already made and fed into the computer after lot of corrections 
while human beings can make mistakes. It occupies less space and less size. A lot of functions or 
programs can be done at a time. It produces less errors in a task and defects. A more complex work 
is done in a sho rt period of time.[34] Artificial Intelligence works so well  when large amount of high 
quantity data and when it comes to application it is resilient to potential errors because the 
consequences of failure is minimal. If the work is done by humans we need to double check the 
work but when done by machines we don‘t need to double check it.  
 
Disadvantages or Challenges in Artificial Intelligence  
[35] Due to high cost of equipment it is difficult to develop the machines. It takes a lot time to 
rebuild, repair and create. The repair can cost extra cash, resource and humans to fix it. The 
machines replacing humans increases unemployment rate and humans have to go in search of jobs 
and fix it. Artificial Intelligence cannot suddenly change government to communism.  Machines can 
very easily cause destruction if it goes to unsafe hands. Artificial Intelligence  is making humans lazy 
with automating bulk of works to machines.  Humans are totally hooked up because of these 
inventions which can cause a drag to future gener ation. Artificial Intelligence  is majorly replacing 
the repetitive tasks and works to robots, human interference is becoming very less that causes a 
significant problems within the utilising standards.[36] The main disadvantage of Artificial 
Intelligence i n our day to day activities are: Sometimes this can lead to mass scale destruction due to 
misusing software. Programs mismatch takes place sometime due to opposite command given in the 
program. Human jobs gets into danger. The overall creativity of the pro grammer depends on the 
human mind. Unemployment rate goes high. This lacks the human touch. Technology 
dependenceincreases due to which human beings become lazy. Artificial Intelligence  requires a lot 
of investment of time and money at the beginning.[37] A rtificial Intelligence is unable to explain the 
logics and reasons behind a certain decision. The situation of current development is at a stage 
where the Artificial Intelligence  cannot know when there is non -availability of solution to a 
particular proble m. Machines cannot replace the connection made by humans that is machines 
cannot develop bonds like huma beings which is an important aspect when it comes to team 
management. Machines are designed only to the specific programs for which they are designed t hey ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
26 cannot do anything out of the box if a sudden change is required.[38] The disadvantage of Artificial 
Intelligence is that it creates a lot of unemployment and this can lead to a lot of struggle to people, 
people cannot educate their children this leads  to sudden stop in economic growth. There would be 
lack of human touch as well as emotional touch  when all the works are done by machines.[39] 
Artificial Intelligence is not able to co -operate with the ethics. Morality is not present in a machine 
and it is  very difficult to design. Even after we do all this it is very big task through convey with 
technology. Artificial Intelligence can help us cut down time but it is totally meaning less expecting  
machines to follow ethics and values as it is like drawing s ketches on water. All this is an human 
trait. 
 
Conclusion  
Artificial Intelligence is something which will be used a lot and it can do wonders in our upcoming 
years. Artificial Intelligence is transforming  is transforming almost everything which is connected to  
humans like employment, security, communication, healthcare and privacy.  It is one side of life 
where it gives us a lot of surprises,increases our excitement level to learn new things and we start 
exploring many websites or we just surf in int ernet. Artificial  Intelligence will be more in demand 
because the amount of data and information generated these days are high in number which cannot 
be absorbed by humans or stored somewhere. Artificial Intelligence helps us solve complex problem 
like per mutation and combination. Artificial Intelligence will be major contribution to economic 
growth in future. Artificial Intelligence is also helping us in the field of medicine which can save lot 
of people. Artificial Intelligence is going to create more com petitive world. Due to Artificial 
Intelligence there will be a lot of unemployment in future so people must start securing their job or 
increase their knowledge in the field in which they are working. People can also start gaining 
knowledge in which their subject or their study is related.  Artificial Intelligence is going to create 
hike in each and every field. People who have invested in stock market must be more careful 
because they are the one who are in more danger and in the same way they are the who can also gain 
more. Artificial intelligence has more number of advantages compare to  disadvantages, So all the 
disadvantages can be ignored.   
 
Reference s 
Arinez, J. F., Chang, Q., Gao, R. X., Xu, C., & Zhang, J. (2020). Artificial intelligence in advanced 
manufacturing: Current status and future outlook.  Journal of Manufacturing Science and 
Engineering , 142(11), 110804.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intelligence.  Aayushi International Interdiscipl inary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intelligence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of a rtificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53.  
Burggräf, P., Wagner, J., & Koke, B. (2018, January). Artificial intelligence in production 
management: A review of the current state of affairs and research trends in academia. 
In 2018 international conf erence on information management and processing (ICIMP)  (pp. 
82-88). IEEE.  
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review.  Ieee Access , 8, 
75264 -75278.  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations o f artificial 
intelligence.  Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -
375. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
27 Crandall, D. J. (2019). Artificial intelligence and manufacturing.  Smart Factories: Issues of 
Information Governance , 10-16. 
Dick, S. (2019). Artificial intelligence.  
Duan, Y., Edwards, J. S., & Dwivedi, Y. K. (2019). Artificial intelligence for decision making in the 
era of Big Data –evolution, challenges and research agenda.  International Journal of 
Information Management,  48, 63 -71. 
Etzioni, A ., & Etzioni, O. (2017). Incorporating ethics into artificial intelligence.  The Journal of 
Ethics , 21(4), 403 -418. 
Hamet .P., & Tremblay, J. (2017). Artificial intelligence in medicine.  Metabolism , 69, S36 -S40 
Holmes, W., Bialik, M., & Fadel, C. (2019). Ar tificial intelligence in education.  Boston: Center for 
Curriculum Redesign . 
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., & Scharre, P. (2018).  Artificial 
intelligence and international security . Center for a New American Security..  
Jiang, F., Jiang, Y., Zhi, H., Dong, Y., Li, H., Ma, S., ... & Wang, Y. (2017). Artificial intelligence 
in healthcare: past, present and future.  Stroke and vascular neurology,  2(4).  
Kaul, V., Enslin, S., & Gross, S. A. (2020). History of artificial intell igence in 
medicine.  Gastrointestinal endoscopy , 92(4), 807 -812. 
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Sc ience (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering,  18(1), 86 -96  
Macrae, C. (2019). Governing the safety of artifi cial intelligence in healthcare.  BMJ quality & 
safety , 28(6), 495 -498. 
McCarthy, J. (1998). What is artificial intelligence?  
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?.  
Minsky, M. (1961). Steps toward artificial intelligence.  Proceedings of the IRE, 49(1), 8 -30. 
Mintz, Y., & Brodie, R. (2019). Introduction to artificial intelligence in medicine.  Minimally 
Invasive Therapy & Allied Technologies , 28(2), 73 -81 
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries. In  Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of Defence Delhi . 
Mohammadi, V., & Minaei, S. (2019). Artificial intelligence in t he production process. 
In Engineering tools in the beverage industry  (pp. 27 -63). Woodhead Publishing.  
Nguyen, M. T., Truong, L. H., Tran, T. T., & Chien, C. F. (2020). Artificial intelligence based data 
processing algorithm for video surveillance to empow er industry 3.5.  Computers & 
Industrial Engineering,  148, 106671  
Radulov, N. (2019). Artificial intelligence and security. Security 4.0.  Security & Future,  3(1), 3 -5. 
Ramesh, A. N., Kambhampati, C., Monson, J. R., & Drew, P. J. (2004). Artificial intellige nce in 
medicine.  Annals of the Royal College of Surgeons of England , 86(5), 334.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
28 Ramesh, A. N., Kambhampati, C., Monson, J. R., & Drew, P. J. (2004). Artificial intelligence in 
medicine.  Annals of the Royal College of Surgeons of England , 86(5), 334.  
Roll,  I., & Wylie, R. (2016). Evolution and revolution in artificial intelligence in 
education.  International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education , 26(2), 582 -599. 
Spector, L. (2006). Evolution of artificial intelligence.  Artificial Intelligence , 170(18), 1251 -1253  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016]  
Szolovits, P. (Ed.). (2019).  Artificial intelligence in medicine . Routledge.  
Szolovits, P. (Ed.). (2019).  Artificial intelligence in medicine . Routledge..  
Teng, X. (2019, April). Discussion about artificial intelligence‘s advantages and disadvantages 
compete with nat ural intelligence. In  Journal of Physics: Conference Series  (Vol. 1187, No. 
3, p. 032083). IOP Publishing.  
Yampolskiy, R. V. (Ed.). (2018).  Artificial intelligence safety and security. CRC Press.  
Yu, K. H., Beam, A. L., & Kohane, I. S. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare.  Nature 
biomedical engineering,  2(10), 719 -731 
  
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
113 GESTURE RECOGNITION FOR AUTOMATION  
 
SOHAM KORGAONKAR  
 
DHAVAL  VIJAPURI  
 
TANMAY KULKARNI  
Email ID: soham.sk.sk@gmail.com  
 
Abstract  
In this paper we have discussed about Gesture Technology and its implementation  using Smart Phones and 
Smart Watches which are quite easily available, cheap and very easy to use. These devices have sensors built 
into them, such as accelerometer, which are not used to their full potential. We will use these sensors to 
recognize gestur es and interpret them using microprocessors. These sensors will transfer the information 
collected by it through Wi -Fi to the microprocessor. This information will be sent to an online server where it 
will be processed using Artificial Intelligence (A.I). Here the raw digital signals will be converted into 
required instructions. These instructions will be sent back to the microprocessor and the microprocessor will 
thus execute the desired task. This project has numerous applications in daily life but most p rominent 
application is for the differently abled people as these people will be benefited a lot with this technology. 
Other applications may include home automation and navigation.  
Keywords: gesture recognition, deep learning, accelerometer, automation, microprocessor  
 
Introduction  
Gesture is the physical movement of a body part to express an idea or feeling. These can be recorded 
by sensors present in phones, smart watches and recognized by Artificial Intelligence (AI). This 
information can be used for a utomation purposes.  
 In today‘s world each of us has a smart phone and most of us possess a smart watch. These 
smart phones and watches possess sensors like accelerometer, gyroscope, motion detector etc. With 
the combined interaction of these sensors, along with Deep Learning AI Technology, we can 
determine the approximate posture of our body and we can use this data obtained for gesture 
identification. With the help of this we can automate most of the basic and intermediate tasks in our 
lives. This tec hnology will be of great use to differently abled people who find it difficult to carry 
out simple tasks like switching on or switching off lights and fans. With the help of this technology 
these people will be able to carry out their day to day activities  easily and help them to lead a more 
comfortable life. In India most of the people find this technology inconvenient as the current devices 
and equipments available for this purpose are either costly or highly sophisticated, making them 
difficult to use. D ue to this inconvenience use of gesture technology is not very widespread. The 
devices that will be used in this project are very cheap and are used by majority of the people. Hence 
this project will make gesture technology cheaper and will help promote th e widespread use of the 
same.  
 
Literary survey  
[1] Today everyone has smart phones which have good quality camera. Using these phones, 
microcontrollers and Bluetooth, an efficient gesture control can be implemented. To identify the 
gestures, the digital si gnals of the corresponding gestures are stored in the RAM of the mobile. Then ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
114 when we do some gestures in front of the mobile camera, the image of our gesture is captured and is 
processed by Principal Component Analysis (PCA). Thus, the image is converted into a digital 
signal. Now this digital signal is matched with the previously stored signals in the RAM. If it 
matches, the binary signal is received by the microcontroller via Bluetooth. Then the microcontroller 
creates a binary combination to pass it to the decoder. The decoder identifies the code and performs 
the necessary operation. For this project, the camera of your mobile should at high contrast and your 
mobile camera should have a flash in it to improve the accuracy of recognising the gestures. [2]  
Automating the home appliances is known as home automation. The home appliances may involve 
lights, fans, heaters, AC, etc. Our gestures can be mapped for controlling the home appliances. An 
interface can be used to connect them and they can be controlled  creating a Personal Area Network 
(PAN). Then these devices can be connected to internet with the help of a router (IOT). An 
accelerometer can be used to capture the gestures. The voltage output generated by the 
accelerometer is received by the microcontro ller. This microcontroller processes the voltage and 
sends it to encoder. The work of the encoder is to convert the data into the required form for 
transmission. Here the data is transferred to the receiver with the help of RF module. At the 
receiving side , there is a decoder which will decode the received signals. These processed signals 
will then be sent back to the microcontroller which will then actuate the relays and will switch the 
appliances. By this way the gesture controlling will be achieved. [3] User Centered Gesture is a 
gesture technology that involves the user in its devlopment. This makes the technology natural and 
easy to use. Due to increase in use of computing devices, a controller free interface is needed and 
use of gesture fulfils it.This  technology will have lots of uses in the medical field.A surgeon can use 
this technology during an operation as the mouse is inaccessible at this time.Noldus Observer X9 
can be used for analysis of these gestures.Two camera (stereo) setup is more accurate  and is thus 
suitable for this project.Software for this technology uses small modules which are specialized for 
detection of a particular gesture.The software can also learn and improve upon the recognition of 
gestures.Study shows that use of gesture is m ore tiring than using mouse. [4] Gestures of our finger 
tips can also be used for the purpose of automation. Initially, we must extract the real time images of 
the fingertip. Extracting only the image of the fingertip and subtracting the background is ofte n not 
very accurate when the background contains dynamic lighting. So, an infrared camera is used. This 
camera is adjusted to measure the temperatures which lie nearby the human body temperature range. 
Because of this the pixel value of the skin colour get s prioritised over the other colours, making the 
tracking of the fingertip more accurate. Once the fingertip is identified, then we obtain the trajectory 
of the fingertip by evaluating the successive image frames. We can do the same thing for multiple 
fingers as well. From the obtained trajectories, now we can interpret the gestures performed by 
fingertips. Now these gestures can be transferred to microcontrollers which will then process the 
gestures into binarized format and then will execute a desired tas k. [5] Use of hand gestures is a very 
powerful method in gesture technology. Many devices can be used for this purpose. One such device 
is the MYO armband. It is a device used for recognising gestures and we have to wear it on our 
forearm. This is used for  using technology wirelessly with the help of our hand movements. It uses 
EMG sensors. These sensors are responsible to measure electrical activity from our muscles. Then 
this information is transferred to a compatible device using wireless Bluetooth techn ology. It uses a 
combination of gyroscope, accelerometer and magnetometer to identify gestures. There are a certain 
loopholes in MYO such as, when we place our one hand above the other, it is not able to identify the 
hand and the fingers accurately. Also, the device is quite costly. MYO armband has its applications Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
115 in gaming, presentations and visual entertainment. [6] This paper focuses on the Time Of flight 
technology (TOF). There are specialised TOF cameras available for this purpose. It uses optic 
refer ence signals which are useful to illuminate the things present in front of it. Now using smart 
pixels, the phase shift, with respect to the reference signal, is estimated. Along with the phase delay, 
amplitude of the reflected wave is also measured. Thus, with the help of this information we obtain a 
gray scaled image of the object. Thresholding of the distance and amplitude information is done to 
improve the accuracy. The reflectivity of this material is encoded in gray values. To decode these 
values, a de coder is required. [7] The technology suggested in this paper uses a pendant with a 
camera ringed with IR LEDs and IR pass filter over the lens, allowing gestures to be recorded even 
in the dark. It has a similar design to Toshiba ―Motion Processor‖ projec t, which is used for 
interaction with desktops and portable computers. Since sensing and computing units are on the 
body, the same pendant can be used as a control unit in multiple locations with ease. Using a variety 
of complementing elements to increase the number of information sources the number and 
complexity of gestures can be reduced. It has much higher accuracy than voice recognition systems, 
and can be easily used in noisy environments as it is unaffected by the ambient noise. A camera with 
a 160° field of view was used to take the video of the gesture performed by the user. It is simple to 
use and can be used by elderly people or those with loss of vision, motor skills and mobility. The 
setup is currently power inefficient due to off -the-shelf comp onents which consume a lot of power. 
It is also difficult to create a battery with enough capacity for a full day‘s use and small enough to be 
lightweight and non -obtrusive. [8] Uses wireless signals for the recognition of gestures, requiring no 
instrument ation or cameras. Since the signals can pass through walls and do not require line -of-sight 
communication, a limited number of signal sources can be used for automating a large area. The 
gestures are recognized using minute doppler shifts and multi -path di stortions produced due to 
interaction of the signals and human motions. Since the doppler shifts produced due to interaction in 
normal Wi -Fi signals are negligible as compared to the frequency of the signals, the received signal 
is transformed into a narro wband pulse, making it easier to detect the small doppler shifts. WiSee 
uses MIMO capability to focus on gestures from a particular user. Using a trigger approach, similar 
to the ones used by multiplayer games using Xbox Kinect, the user controls the inter face by 
performing a particular gesture pattern. Limitation of WiSee is that the accuracy reduces the number 
of users increase for a fixed number of transmitters and receiving antennas. [9] Uses a range camera 
to obtain depth data of an object. 3D range ca mera captures data unambiguously and at a high frame 
rate. This eases the task of segmentation and tracking in a 3D space. The 3D camera uses a Time -
Of-Flight approach to obtain the distance of a point. This is achieved by using modulated infrared 
light.  Both the depth and intensity data received from the sensor has a lot of noise, making pre -
processing essential. This is done by removing those pixels whose amplitude after reflection is 
below a pre -determined threshold value. The depth is then recalculated at these points using a linear 
interpolation method.  However, points near the edge of the hand end up getting merged into the 
background as the resolution of the sensor used is limited. Lighting conditions also affect the depth 
data, but this is rectified by frequent calculation of the average intensity value of the obtained 
images. The depth value of the object cannot be measured accurately at high speeds, so the data 
obtained from the centroid is used as a rough estimate of the depth. The hand can be segm ented 
using a histogram method, which compares the collected data and compares to find the section with 
the least distance and having a sufficient number of points. [10] Uses a 5 -sensor data glove to 
efficiently recognize hand gestures. This approach uses customized gloves which is a cheaper ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
116 alternative than vision -based methods which require sophisticated equipment and extensive pre -
processing. The gestures used for testing were static only. PNN is the optimal solution for the core 
component. It has high r ecognition rates, can be used to accommodate various hand anatomies and 
can store around 16 hand gestures. However, it uses a lot of memory as the execution is slow. Thus, 
a combination of clustering algorithms are used along with a four -tier architecture.  Every 
combination of open/closed finger is given an index starting from 0(fist) to 15(open hand). The 
gestures are recognized on the basis of a boundary value. If the reading obtained for the finger is 
above this value, it is considered to be closed, if i t‘s above the boundary value, it is considered open. 
At the boundary value the reading is considered as undefined. This method sometimes misinterprets 
the gesture due to the anatomical differences between people and cross coupling of optical sensors. 
Since  the simple gestures lacked symbolic meaning, complex static gestures were introduced. This 
data was recorded using a small Python routine. It saved a record containing six fields, the first five 
for the readings obtained from the sensor and the last one f or the gesture.  
 
Findings  
After our study, we found out that not only the sensors in our phones and watches, but also many 
other devices can be used for this purpose. The devices like MOY armbands, TOF technology can 
be useful in this project. But these devices are quite expensive as well. The A.I Technology involved 
in this process can be difficult to develop, but use of online services like Google Development 
Platform, which allows us to integrate Google‘s APIs can make this task easier. Currently a lot of 
research work is going o n in this area and there is a lot of scope for future research. But the only 
thing that makes our project different from others is that, it will be cheaper than most of the current 
projects. Also, the use of simple devices such as mobile phones and smartwa tches is currently 
unexplored. Due to the introduction of easily accessible cloud services and internet access, it is now 
possible to connect this project to the internet easily.  
 
Conclusion  
Initially, our idea was to control and recognise gestures using only the sensors present in our 
mobiles and smart watches and the use this gesture technology in the field of automation. After 
studying about this topic in detail, we realised that the mobile cameras can also be used for capturing 
the gestures and this wo uld be of great help.  A merit of this project is that it would very cheap as it 
uses smart phones and smart watches which are available at very cheap rates these days. A 
microprocessor chip required is also a very cheap device. Also, gesture technology is gaining a lot of 
importance these days and it has its applications in almost all sectors. The demerits of the project 
include, the range for operation may be limited. The biggest difficulty will be to make it accessible 
to all. As the field of gesture tech nology is new, there are a lot of things to investigate. Also, there is 
a lot of scope for further research in this area. The field of gesture technology would definitely 
contribute in building energy efficient automated devices.  
 
References  
Dey, S., Das, A., Mishra, A., & Dutta, D. (2015). Gesture controlled home automation. International 
Journal, 162.  
Li, Z., & Jarvis, R. (2009, December). Real time hand gesture recognition using a range camera. 
In Australasian Conference on Robotics and Automation  (pp. 21-27). Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
117 Luzanin, O., &  Plancak, M. (2014). Hand gesture recognition using low -budget data glove and 
cluster -trained probabilistic neural network.  Assembly Automation , 34(1), 94 -105. 
Mulling, T., &Sathiyanarayanan, M. (2015, July). Characteristics of hand g esture navigation: a case 
study using a wearable device (MYO). In  Proceedings of the 2015 British HCI 
Conference  (pp. 283 -284). ACM.  
Oka, K., Sato, Y., & Koike, H. (2002). Real -time fingertip tracking and gesture recognition.  IEEE 
Computer graphics and App lications , 22(6), 64 -71. 
Penne, J., Soutschek, S., Fedorowicz, L., &Hornegger, J. (2008, September). Robust Real -Time 3D 
Time -of-Flight Based Gesture Navigation. In  Mensch & Computer Workshopband  (pp. 79 -
81). 
Pu, Q., Gupta, S., Gollakota, S., & Patel, S. ( 2013, September). Whole -home gesture recognition 
using wireless signals. In  Proceedings of the 19th annual international conference on 
Mobile computing & networking  (pp. 27 -38). ACM.  
Starner, T., Auxier, J., Ashbrook, D., & Gandy, M. (2000, October). The g esture pendant: A self -
illuminating, wearable, infrared computer vision system for home automation control and 
medical monitoring. In  Wearable computers, the fourth international symposium on  (pp. 87 -
94). IEEE.  
Tambe, P., Nigam, A., Raj, M., & Chaturvedi, R. GESTURE CONTROLLED HOME 
AUTOMATION.  
Van Beurdena, M. H., IJsselsteijna, W. A., &  Hopfb, K. (2011, May). User centered design of 
gesture -based interaction technology. In  3DTV Conference: The True Vision -Capture, 
Transmission and Display of 3D Video (3DTV -CON), 2011  (pp. 1 -4). IEEE.  
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
215 VARIOUS  ASPECTS  OF ARTIFICIAL  INTELLIGENCE  
 
KANDE  VENKATA  ASHUTOSH  
B.Tech.  Computer  Science   
Email  ID: kandevenakta.ashutosh2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What  is AI? 
Ref 1: [1]Artificial  Intelligence  is the science  of making  machines  with human  intelligence  like 
computers.  It is used to understand  human  nature  using  computer  knowledge.  Intelligence  is the 
mathematical  aspect  of person‘s  capacity  to accomplish  goals  in the real life. Someti mes, but not 
always  or even  most  of the time.  On the one hand,  we can learn  a lot about  how to make  robots  
solve  problems  by watching  other  people  or simply  studying  our own processes.  On the other  hand,  
rather  of studying  people  or animals,  most  AI resear ch focuses  on the issues  that the world  presents  
to intelligence.  Researchers  in AI are free to utilise  methods  that have  never  been  observed  in 
humans  or that require  far more  computing  than humans  are capable  of. 
 Ref 2: [2]One  of the interesting  facts  about  Artificial  Intelligence  is it is difficult  to identify  the 
subject.The  majority  of artificial  intelligence  research  has focused  on simulating  the symptoms  of 
intelligent  behaviour  that we see in ourselves.  Investigation  into the underlying  factors  of 
intelligence  has been  omitted  in order  to achieve  the intelligence's  direct  effects  more  quickly.  These  
efforts  yielded  computer  programmes  with exceptional  performance,  but only in a few application  
domains.  
 
History  of AI 
Ref 1: [3]The  history  of Artifi cial Intelligence  can be followed  back  to philosophy,  literature,  etc. 
Problem  solving,  knowledge  representation  demonstration  in language  understanding,  translation,  
etc were  the early  achievements.  AI has been  affected  by early  inventions  in electronics,  
engineering,  and a variety  of other  fields.  Work  in problem  solving,  which  includes  foundational  
work  in learning,  knowledge  representation,  and inference,  as well as demonstration  programmes  in 
language  comprehension,  translation,  theorem  proving,  associ ative  memory,  and knowledge -based  
systems,  were  among  the early  milestones.  The essay  concludes  with a look at some  of the field's  
most  significant  organisations  and contemporary  issues.  
 Ref 2: [4]Standard concept of creating Artificial Intelligence is th e system must have a goal 
through its actions which has global economy and massive influence in it.  
 
Growth of AI  
 Ref 1: [5]  The future of health care may change significantly as entrepreneurs provide artificial 
intelligence -based solutions that change how we prevent, diagnose, and treat illnesses (AI). This 
article examines AI -driven health -care businesses and highlights emergent business model 
paradigms that entrepreneurs from around the world are employing to bring AI solutions to market. 
It identifie s areas of value creation for AI in health care applications and presents a method for 
developing business models for AI health care businesses.  
 Ref 2: [6]  Artificial intelligence, particularly machine learning (ML), is the most important 
general -purpose technology of our time. ML refers to a machine's ability to continually improving 
its performance without humans needing to explain how to complete all of the jobs it is assigned. 
Machine learning has grown significantly more effective and readily availabl e in the last several 
years. We can now create systems that self -learn how to complete tasks.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
216 AI in Healthcare Appliances  
Ref 1: [7]  Artificial Intelligence has become a well known field in computer science, as it has 
improved the lives of human lives in many areas.Human performance in a variety of fields is 
improving, and there is reason to believe that this trend will continue in healthcare. AI could help 
with disease prevention, detection, diagnosis, and therapy. Cancer, neurology, cardiology, and 
diabe tes are among the major illness areas where AI is used. The present state of AI applications in 
healthcare is discussed in this review. AI may also be used to detect problems and threats to patient 
safety with high accuracy and speed, such as patterns of s ub-optimal treatment or outbreaks of 
hospital -acquired illness.  
 Ref 2: [8]  Human intervention is minimal when it comes to AI. Artificial intelligence (AI) 
systems that aid front -line healthcare personnel in detecting and monitoring disease efficiency. In 
the Covid -19 pandemic, artificial intelligence (AI) has performed well for us. Because robots are not 
suspected of being infected with the virus, they are being used to complete a variety of activities 
such as cleaning, distributing food packages to suspec ted regions, and administering medicine to 
reduce the need for human intervention. AI has been used in a variety of fields, including 
programme translation and intelligent personal assistants. Along with the growing use of electronic 
health records (EHRs) and the rapid development of bioscience, including neuroscience, AI has 
found various applications in the medical industry.  
 Ref 3: [9]  AI can be used in health care to streamline the check -in process for patients, improve 
the efficiency of patient records , monitor disease, aid diagnosis, assist in surgical procedures, and 
provide mental health therapy. AI helps radiologists with a variety of tasks, including patient 
scheduling, billing, staffing optimization, protocol creation, picture quality assessment, radiation 
dose reduction, and image interpretation. AI should not be feared because it will not replace people; 
rather, it should be embraced because of its ability to improve and extend human life.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
Ref 1: [10]  Artificial intelligence (AI) technology has recently received a lot of interest in the 
industrial industry. It attracts a lot of attention as a crucial technology in smart manufacturing and 
the Industry 4.0 agenda. Product lifecycle management (PLM) encomp asses a wide range of 
engineering, business, and management operations that occur throughout the lifecycle of a product, 
from the conception of an intangible concept to the recycling of a finished product.  
 Ref 2: [11]  Cloud computing, the Internet of Thin gs, the Industrial Internet of Things, Big Data, 
Blockchain, Cyber -Physical Systems, Artificial Intelligence, and other new, innovative technologies 
characterise the fourth industrial revolution, dubbed Industry 4.0. Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
technology  is becoming increasingly important in modern production, especially in the context of 
the Industry 4.0 paradigm.  
 Ref 3: [12]  Modern industrial and logistics systems rely on increasingly pervasive and powerful 
computing networks to function. Oceans of dat a are constantly generated by sensors, machines, 
systems, smart devices, and individuals within these networks. Big Data is being analysed quicker, 
more broadly, and more deeply than ever before, thanks to growing computer capabilities. These 
developments have re -defined the usefulness of Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology, ushering in a 
new era known as Industry 4.0, or the Smart Factory.  
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
217 AI in Security and Surveillance   
Ref 1: [13]  Surveillance cameras can be used for a variety of purposes in newly developed cities, 
including smart traffic, healthcare, monitoring, and security. Egypt's new administrative capital, 
"New Cairo," is one of the most well -known new cities. Egypt's new administrative capital is mostly 
known for its green lifestyle, wh ich is exemplified by the "Green River.‖  
 Ref 2: [14]  Nowadays, video surveillance systems (CSS) are in high demand in a variety of 
industries for smart manufacturing. However, the increased use of CSS will have a number of 
limitations in terms of storage capacity and transmission bandwidth. This project attempts to design 
a revolutionary artificial intelligence (AI) -based data processing algorithm based on real -world 
needs. Artificial intelligence (AI) can be used to process a huge number of videos capture d by the 
CSS, and computer vision algorithms can be used to recognise deviant behaviours or notable things, 
lowering labour requirements.  
 Ref 3: [15]  To solve concerns such as society, environment, morphology, and many others, 
cities are increasingly turn ing to specialised technologies. Smart Cities, a new idea that promotes the 
integration of sensors and Big Data via the Internet of Things, is a strong supporter of this possibility 
(IoT). This avalanche of data opens up new possibilities in city planning and management, as well as 
new commercial opportunities. While Big Data processing via Artificial Intelligence (AI) can make 
a significant contribution to the urban fabric, sustainability and liveability must not be disregarded in 
favour of technological a dvancements.  
 
AI in Education  
Ref 1: [16]  For over 20 years computers have been used. The first computer based training (CBT) 
and computer aided instruction (CAI) have been used for teaching computers. The instructions in 
these were not customised for students instead the guidelines for taking a s tudent were 
scripted.While CBT and CAl may be helpful to some students, they do not provide the same level of 
specialised attention that a student would receive from a human tutor. To give such attentiveness, a 
computer -based educational system must reason  about the domain and the learner. This has sparked 
interest in intelligent tutoring systems research (ITSs). ITS allows for more flexibility in material 
presentation and a better ability to respond to unique student demands.  
 These systems gain intellige nce by capturing pedagogical decisions about how to teach as well 
as learner information. This gives you more flexibility by allowing you to change the colour scheme.  
 Ref 2: [17]  AI in education mainly focusses on development of AI techniques for the study of 
human teaching and developing the system to enhance the human learning.When it comes to the 
engineering side of the topic, the phrase "intelligent tutoring system" (ITS) is widely employed. 
Planning, control, knowledge representation and acquisiti on, explanation, cognitive modelling, and 
dialogue management are all supported by computational approaches. Alternative learning theories 
are investigated and evaluated using computational models. The prospect of developing powerful 
teaching systems with more domain knowledge, increased capacity to form inferences about student 
behaviour, and increased reasoning ability about topic selection and response production motivates 
the research.  
 Ref 3: [18]  OLM(Open Learner Modelling ) and ITS(Intelligent Tutori ng System) mainly 
focusses on interpretability of basic AI representation. OLMs are used for opening up AI models of 
learners  ’cognition and and emotion in order to help human learning and teaching.Over thirty years 
of ITS (also known as AI in Education) r esearch has resulted in essential work that explains how AI 
can be utilised in Education to greatest effect and, through the OLM study, what considerations are 
required to make it interpretable and explainable for the benefit of learning.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
218 Advantages of AI   
Ref 1: [19]  AI applications are used to recreate human intelligence ignorer to solve the problems and 
for making decisions. Some of the advantages of AI are permanency reliability, and cost 
effectiveness.AI has been used in a variety of modelling, predict ion, decision support, and control 
applications in fields as diverse as engineering, economics, linguistics, law, manufacturing, and 
medicine (1). One of the most potential AI applications is its widespread use on the Internet, such as 
in search engines (2 ). Although AI has great efficacy, it, like any other application, has limitations in 
terms of capability and functionality. These constraints will be discussed more in this essay. Before 
going over AI's drawbacks, this article will go over some of its ben efits.  
 Ref 2: [20]  Artificial Intelligence has many benefits. This field of science provides us capability 
to evolve completely and go to the history of artificial robots. Artificial intelligence has great 
benefits; what this field can offer us is the ability to evolve definitively and go on to the history of 
artificial robots. Artificial Intelligence's key benefits are as follows:Finished task faster than a 
human,Stressful and complex work completed easily, Difficult work done in short period,Various 
functions can done at a time, Success ratio is high,Less errors in task and defects also,More 
efficiency in short time, Less space, less size,Calculation of long term and complex situations, and 
Discover unexplored things. i.e. outer space.  
 Ref 3: [21]  Some areas of AI constantly use Empirical methods. Such as, standard domain 
planning and search algorithms, etc. However for some applications like user modelling, empirical is 
rare. For example, only about a fourth of the articles in User Modeling and User A dapted Interaction 
(UMUAI) report significant empirical evaluations. A simple evaluation study with limited sample 
sizes and typically no statistical methodologies is included in many of them. Empirical research, on 
the other hand, is required for estimati ng the effectiveness, efficiency, and usability of a system that 
employs AI approaches in real -world scenarios. Empirical evaluations are especially important for 
user modelling strategies that are based on human -computer interaction.  
 Ref 4: [22]  Human wo rk can be reduced by using Artificial Intelligence. Humans can be 
replaced with machines, while humans can be doing other work. Artificial Intelligence is like a 
cheap labour which can be used for the works which needs to be done fast and also leads to pro fits. 
 Ref 5: [23]  Usage of AI leads to highest accuracy with zero amounts of risks. Robots which are 
using AI can be used for various purposes like sendingthem to the space and exploring things there. 
Sending them to the deep oceans, knowing about the dee p earth, extracting the fuel,When 
performing repetitive and time -consuming jobs, artificial intelligence can be quite useful.  
 AI can do jobs that are hazardous to human health and life, like as rescuing people and putting 
out fires, etc.  
 
Disadvantages of AI  
Ref 1: [24]  The following are some of the most significant drawbacks of Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
in our daily life. It can be misused at times, resulting in enormous disaster; programme mismatches 
are sometimes carried out in the opposite directi on of the order;  
 Human jobs are being impacted, the unemployment rate is rising, creativity is reliant on 
programmers, there is a lack of human touch, the younger generation is becoming lazy, it takes a lot 
of time and money, and technological dependency  is increasing.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
219  Ref 2: [25]  Due to expensive machines it is not easy to upgrade them, it can cost tons of money 
to build, recreate, repair. Replacing robots with humans leads to severe unemployment, machines 
can be easily destroyed if they go to a wrong p erson ’s hands, etc.  
 Some of the disadvantages of AI are as follows:It is difficult to design machines since the 
necessary equipment is costly, Creating, rebuilding, and repairing can be extremely expensive in 
terms of both money and time. Robotic repair may be used to reduce the amount of time it takes for 
humans to fix things, but it would cost more money and resources, Robots can cause severe 
unemployment if they replace jobs that AI can't perform, or if humans can repair the unemployment 
by doing thing s that AI can't do, or if the government is significantly changed to communism. If 
placed in the wrong hands, machines can quickly bring havoc. That is, there should be a minimum 
of dread of the diverse humans.  
 Ref 3: [26]  Cost of the repair is one of the  main drawbacks of AI. It should be maintained 
regularly, the software should be updated every time for meeting the requirements. In case of a 
breakdown the cost of the repair would be very high.  
 Ref 4: [27]  Although government and schools plays a crucia l role in considering artificial 
intelligence for business English education, maximum ideas are executed in a professional level. 
The main reason is that the universities create talent development programmes. AI awareness and 
ability training is not comple tely created for higher studies. Innovation and entrepreneurship 
education will be difficult to progress smoothly if the artificial intelligence training goal is not 
incorporated in the professional education plan.  
 Ref 5: [28]  The future generation may lo ok back to our time and states it as a rapid change era. 
IN a matter of decades, we ’ve changed rapidly to information based society. Artificial 
agents(including various forms of AI) are the tools that involve in decision making and solely 
depends on automa ted.Referring  to gadgets and decision -making aids that use automated, data -
driven, or algorithmic learning techniques (including artificial intelligence (AI) in its various forms) 
as artificial agents.  Devices as simple as Roomba robots and internet recomm endation engines to 
more complex cognitive systems like IBM's Watson fall under this category. Such agents are 
increasingly becoming incorporated in our daily decision -making. As a result of their introduction 
and adoption, a slew of policy issues have ari sen.  
 
Conclusion  
Artificial Intelligence has become a vital role in a human life where we can complete all the works 
so easily and efficient with it. The human life rely on the AI for almost each and every work going 
in the present world. There are some disadvantages of AI also but they can be reduced with some 
practices and enjoy the advantages of it. AI is at the heart of a new business that creates 
computational intelligence models. The main assumption is that intelligence (human or other) can be 
expre ssed in the form of symbolic structures and  operations that can be programmed on a digital 
computer.  
 
References  
Allam, Z., & Dhunny, Z. A. (2019). On big data, artificial intelligence and smart cities. Cities , 89, 
80-91. 
Beck, J., Stern, M., &  Haugsjaa, E. (1996). Applications of AI in Education. XRDS: Crossroads, 
The ACM Magazine for Students , 3(1), 11 -15. ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
220 Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence. Aayushi International Interdiscipl inary Research Journal, 227 -230. 
Brynjolfsson, E., & Mcafee, A. N. D. R. E. W. (2017). Artificial intelligence, for real. Harvard 
Business Review . 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence. Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53. 
Chien, C. F., Dauzè re-Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Chowdhury, M., &  Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -375. 
Conati, C., Porayska -Pomsta, K., & Mavrikis, M. (2018). AI in Education needs interpretable 
machine learning: Lessons from Open Learner Modelling. arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.00154 . 
Eldrandaly, K. A., Abdel -Basset, M., & Abdel -Fatah, L. (2019). PTZ -surveillance coverage based 
on artificial intelligence for smart cities. International Journal of Inf ormation Management , 
49, 520 -532. 
Fogel,  D. B. (1993).  Evolving  artificial  intelligence.  
Garbuio, M., & Lin, N. (2019). Artificial intelligence as a growth engine for health care startups: 
Emerging business models. California Management Review , 61(2), 59 -83. 
Guo, M. Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial Intelligence In Business English Teaching.  
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review. International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review. International Journal of Library 
& Information Science  (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Lancellotti, C., Cancian, P., Savevski, V., Kotha, S. R. R., Fraggetta, F., Graziano, P., & Tommaso, 
L. D. (2021). Artificial Intelligence & Tissue Biomarkers: Advantages, Risks and 
Perspectives for Pathology. Cells , 10(4), 787.  
McCarthy,  J. (2007).  What  is artificial  intelligence?.  
Murali ¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Nguyen, M. T., Truong, L. H., Tran, T. T., & Chien, C. F. (2020). Artificial intelligence based data 
processing al gorithm for video surveillance to empower industry 3.5. Computers & 
Industrial Engineering , 148, 106671.  
Osipov, S. S., & Ulimova, N. V. (2013). Advantages and disadvantages of ai. Science and world , 77. 
Osipov, S. S., & Ulimova, N. V. (2013). Advantages and disadvantages of ai. Science and world , 77. 
Osoba, O. A., & Welser, W. (2017). The risks of artificial intelligence to security and the future of 
work. RAND.  
Russell, S. (2021). The history and future of AI. Oxford Review of Economic Policy , 37(3), 509 -520. 
Subha, T., Ranjana, R., & Sheela, T. (2021). Influence of AI, BC and IoT for Healthcare –II. In 
Blockchain, Internet of Things, and Artificial Intelligence  (pp. 219 -233). Chapman and 
Hall/CRC.  
Wagner, J. B. (2019). Artificial intelligence in medical imaging. Radiologic technology , 90(5), 489 -
501. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
221 Wang, L., Liu, Z., Liu, A., & Tao, F. (2021). Artificial intelligence in product lifecycle management. 
The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology , 1-26. 
Weibelzahl, S., &  Weber, G. (2002). Advantages, opportunities and limits of empirical evaluations: 
Evaluating adaptive systems. KI, 16(3), 17 -20. 
Woolf, B. (1991). AI in Education . University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Department of 
Computer and Information Science.  
Zeba, G., Dabi ć, M., Ĉiĉ ak, M., Daim, T., & Yalcin, H. (2021). Technology mining: Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing. Technological Forecasting and Social Change , 171, 120971.  
 
 
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
222 VARIOUS ASPECTS OF  ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
Abhijai Rajawat  
(REG. NO.  – 21BCE2775) , B.Tech, Computer Science  
Email ID:  abhijai.rajawat2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence ? 
[1] The term artificial intelligence refers to the fast computers we use, all those machines which are 
used to imitate human intelligence to make our work faster and easier with less labour work. It also 
includes software that helps us achieve our goals more q uickly. [2] The intelligence or problem 
solving capability shown by artificial entities such as robot managers in hotels made by humans 
embedded with mechanisms which solve the problems according to situations at hand can explain 
the very meaning of artifi cial intelligence.  
 
History of Artificial Intelligence  
[3] In history this huge growing sector was mainly based on fiction and imagination andwho would 
have thought that giant computerised machines and more compatible and smart robots will become 
major par t of modernisation. At first the milestones in this field were proving of theorems and 
helping in providing and translation of associativememory.  
 [4] In the 1940s when programmable digital computers were made it gave the idea to a few of 
the scientists to  make an artificial brain based on the concept of mathematical reasoning. Some think 
that John Mccarthy has come up with this term for the first time but it was used much earlier which 
was shown in seminal work of Vannevar Bush.  
 
Growth of Artificial Intel ligence  
[5] Artificial intelligence is now used in more and more sectors. In medical, financial, educational, it 
has also majorly contributed to the growth of economy of nations and the production of mega 
companies such as many of the tech giant organizations.  [6] We can see that in healthcare sector AI 
has shown huge productivity in research of medicines and surgeries including robotics. In the field 
of management we can see robotic workers working as receptionists etc, also to keep huge chunk of  
data‘s which are accessible readily and also help in the field of cyber security . Examples of its 
growth can be seen that now we are able to reduce traffic jams because of sensors that are able to 
sense road conditions. Now we can also make calls with th e help of smartwatches and use them as 
mini smart phones.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare Appliances  
[7] There are several applications of AI in healthcare sector starting from managing patient routes to 
provide better treatment facilities. By the h elp of AI they are not concerned by the number of 
patients and long working hours.  
 For providing correct diagnosis AI uses arithmetic algorithms along with using data science 
from the human body. By the use of AI for drug discovery this process which was earlier very 
expensive and laborious has now become cheaper and faster. [8] In healthcare appliances AI has 
played a major role in the development and growth of flexible pressure sensors. These sensors 
provide a number of advantages, including a high degre e of flexibility and compatibility with large -
area processing methods.  
 Pressure sensors have yet another essential application called mobile bio -monitoring which can 
be utilized for medical diagnostics.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
223  [9] We would have never imagined that science would  evolve so much that we would be 
able to see surgeries performed by robots as an accomplishment of AI in the healthcare 
sector. These special surgeries assisted by robots were developed to improve the capability 
of the surgeons performing open surgery. The  surgeons use robotic arms controlled by 
computer for assistance and its end results. The best advantage of using these computerized 
techniques is that the surgeons may not be available during the duration of surgery rather 
they can be anywhere in the  world. 
 
Artificial Intelligence in Manufacturing and Production  
 [10] AI has been of major help in manufacturing systems which are namely automated visual 
inspections, maintenance and fault  detections.  
 People are attempting to apply this knowledge to tasks such as production planning and material 
handling. AI has great potential in the field  of semiconductor manufacturing . [11] Manufacturing is 
a powerful pillar of a nation‘s economy and support many livelihoods. The deep fusion of 
information communication technology and product related know -how enables a revolutionary 
transformation of manufacturing approaches. Developed countries such as the US and UK have 
drafted many policies for intelligent manufacturing. One of the example is  ―Industrial Internet‖ in 
2012 to connect people , data , intelligent equipment to enable smart and quick decision making . 
[12] In case of India as it is an agrarian country most of its revenue comes from agriculture sector 
with the advancement of latest technologies and their usage  will encourage it‘s growth. With the 
help of AI and ML systems, farmers can make packaged produce and storage more effective, with 
less waste, and can also provide smart data on crops to enable smart inputs.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Security and Survei llance  
[13] In this developing world there is a growing need for advanced security systems. AI has proved 
its importance by providing various intelligent software‘s and machines. Basic examples are CCTV 
cameras used for surveillance and also with the use A I and DeepNeural Networks , VCA software‘s 
is trained to identify and control several differentiatedobjects.  
 [14] In law enforcement the face recognition software is of great use to identify the criminals 
from their past records.This feature has made thei r work faster and they are able to collect such huge 
chunk of data with greater ease. In this field machine learning techniques can be used for 
regeneration and to compare video backgrounds and to help forensic teams for identifying vehicles. 
We can say th at Artificial Intelligence is the coming transformation in video analytics. Video 
monitoring software‘s which are growing with time are also playing an important role in themilitary.  
 [15] To facilitate monitoring facilities, AI helps in detecting if a per son is entering a restricted 
area or if there are any unusual behaviors and it reports it. AI uses the surveillance data to ensure 
that the person has paid for the parking‘s. Countries like the US and Chinahave developed millions 
of surveillance cameras an d are leading in this field. China is supplying AI based technologies to at 
least 60countries.  
 
AI in Education  
[16]AI plays an important role in education, it involves techniques for the study of human teaching 
and engineering that helps the human learnin g and research. It seems a long term helping hand for 
the humans. The term ‗Intelligent tutoring system‘(ITS) is used at a large scale for the engineering 
side of disciple. Computational methods are used to help in planning, enhancing knowledge, control, ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
224 modeling, dialog management, etc. It is also used to explore and evaluate different theories about 
global education.  Three types of goals seems to be game changing in field of  education, i.e. the use 
of AI, cognitive science techniques to use in problem sol ving domain as well as tutors teaching and 
student learning in that particular domain. Some teaching strategies that is difficult to attain in class 
becomes easy to understand with the help of AI . [17]In the modern era the belief on technology is 
been incr eased at very high rate and it is keep increases. AI plays an important role in that, to 
changing the relation and evolving a good relation between teacher and student, as well as among 
the students also. Let‘s focus at instance that the issue of ‗Technolo gical inclusion‘ of individuals 
through education has a deep social, economical and political effects, such as the individuals is 
being fit to join the market and contribute to the economical development of societies. It also 
expands the way of learning. C hristensen notes was very successful use of technology in classroom 
is highly dependent on teachers attitudes towards computers which will lead to the great 
enhancement in education.  [18]Nowadays creation of Handbook by AI is attempted to make the 
concepts , methods, tools, and main results of research accessible to a broad scientific and 
engineering audience by both the writers and editiors. Currently AI work is very used to practice 
specialists and other interested computer scientists. But the field is gro wing tremendously in every 
field of education, researches, scientific experiments and many more. With this book the writer is 
trying to build a bridge that are easily crossed by engineers, experts, scientists, researchers and our 
own computer science colle agues. The main goal of this book is to construct instructional programs 
that is well prepared to optimized for each student.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[19]AI apply an empirical research methodology for planning and search algorithms that are used in 
common domains, as well as learning the machine language by using the actual data. If you look at 
fields like modelling and empirical investigations, it appears to be quite unusual. This is only the 
one-forth of the articles published in User Modeling and user ad apted interaction. It enhances the 
effectiveness, the efficiency and the usability of the system.  [20] The widespread deployment of AI 
applications in any tool contributes to the establishment of dependability.  It has proved itself to be 
very reliable in v arious applications because of its ability to use intelligence similar to human in a 
reasoning process. It also helps to save money by minimizing the requirement for personal time.If a 
company has to save costs, it may turn to AI at the right moment and in  the right way. It has 
afantastic talent of decision making which leads to reduction in operational costs . [21] AI consist of 
two words one is ‗Artificial‘ and the second one is ‗Intelligence‘ which means manmade and 
intelligence i.e. the capacity or abili ty of thinking respectively. AI may be defined as an area of 
computer science established by humans to create intelligent computers that can behave like people 
and digest information considerably quicker than humans. It can also reduce the time, money, eff orts 
of the human. It consists of specialized machines that are used to solve complicated issues. It is very 
useful for both the humans as well as for the society . [22] AI gives the highest amount of accuracy 
and with complete zero error.It's utilized in a  variety of applications, including robots that explore 
space, the depths of the earth, the depths of the oceans, and many other locations where people can't 
go. It can also be utilized as a life -saving alternative since it can perform tough tasks that hum ans 
are unable of. Smartphones are the great examples of AI such as Alexa, which makes your work 
easier only using the voice command . [23] AI emphasizes on symbolic and non -algorithmic problem 
solving methods. Its intelligence is based on its capacity to c ontrol labor, confine space, and make 
things simple in comparison to humans. It has transformed the society beyond imagination. Natural Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
225 language processing, pattern discovery, expert systems, and robotics are all sub -areas with the 
objective of working sim ilarly to human intelligence.  
 
Challenges or Disadvantages of AI  
[24]AI is reshaping the world in its own way so their emerges some of the impacts or some harms 
on the society. It is a concern to look upon the servers on regular basis. It is also important to 
educate future members of society, stakeholders in a such a way that AI might not impact the life of 
people. They should take their responsibility to increase its benefits without losing its potential 
harms. AI cannot take care of the standard  ethics of the society. We have to look that no lack in 
privacy should emerge through this technology . [25] Some experts make investigations on 
disadvantages of AI in 1987. They discovered that it can be harmful on mental attitudes such as 
beliefs and inte ntions. Data literacy to manage the flow of large volumes of data. The human are 
becoming obsessed with it. Experts also found that AI is discovered by humans, but now the humans 
are totally dependent on technology. It is also lacking in the field of criti cal thinking regarding some 
serious issues. If it grows to be sufficiently powerful and knowledgeable, it may be able to take the 
role of school instructors. There were more dangers and drawbacks than indiscriminate robots and 
artificial intelligence uses in education . [26] Some of the main disadvantages of AI in our day to day 
lives are that some time it can be misused by any outsider without your permission leading to 
damage. It has the potential to influence human occupations, resulting in a rise in unem ployment in 
society. It is making the younger generation dependent and lazy. A mismatched software might send 
it in the incorrect direction. Lack of human touch is involved. It requires a lot of time and money. Its 
functional originality is reliant on the coder, thus it may not be suitable for all users. Some people's 
mortal and social ethics may also be harmed . [27]AI based trading is also becoming the need of the 
hour nowadays. It shows a lot of advantages but it has plenty of negative sides also. It is a nticipated 
that it will learn and execute more effectively, as well as dominate and exceed humans. Methods for 
using AI and AI -based applications vary depending on the stocks, assets, and markets. Varied time 
periods and modest modifications have different  effects, all of which can end in loss. Following that, 
more investigation was required to discover particular data trends. [28] Uprising of AI and data 
usage in our daily life puts much concern about privacy and other ethical issues. We suggest that 
what is needed now is a way to comprehensively understand these issues and find mechanisms to 
resolve these issues. We propose that some principles of responsible research and innovation might 
serve as the framework for acting in such a way that the technology we use become socially 
acceptable, attractive, and sustainable. We want to utilize AI responsibly so that it does not hurt 
anyone and protects our data from being disclosed, among other things.  
 
Conclusion  
I believe that many of us have benefited from AI in our lives, whether we realize it or not. Taking 
online lessons and viewing large -scale manufacture of diverse things by computerized machines are 
two examples. AI's introduction has undoubtedly aided us in numerous ways, making our work 
easier and more efficient. The issue emerges, however, when it comes to the working class or those 
who cannot afford this luxury. They work in these areas, but if people continue to lose employment 
as a result of AI, then this world of scientific fantasies is not benefiti ng everyone equitably.Also, in 
order to deploy AI in many areas, people must be taught; however, who will train them, since 
employees in firms are required to master machine learning and languages in advance. Millions of 
people are expected to lose their j obs in the coming years, so introducing AI machines, robots, or 
money advanced technology can be efficient or money advanced technology that will come with ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
226 time, maybe not today, but research is underway on how to make it more safe and easy to work with. 
The problem of unemployment must be solved, and people must be trained in the proper use of AI 
systems. The other shortcomings will be addressed one by one as human research progresses.  
 
References  
Abdulov, R. (2020). Artificial intelligence as an important  factor of sustainable and crisis - free 
economic growth. Procedia Computer Science , 169,468-472. 
Beck, J., Stern, M., &Haugsjaa, E. (1996). Applications of AI in Education.  XRDS: Crossroads, The 
ACM Magazine for Students , 3(1), 11 -15. 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari,  V., &Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Borenstein, J., & Howard, A. (2021). Emerging challenges in AI and the need for AI ethics 
education.  AI an d Ethics , 1(1), 61 -65. 
Bouletreau, P., Makaremi, M., Ibrahim, B., Louvrier, A., &Sigaux, N. (2019).Artificial intelligence: 
applications in orthognathic surgery. Journal of stomatology, oral and maxillofacial 
surgery , 120(4), 347-354. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence. Ai Magazine , 26(4),53 -53 
Charles, J. (1998). AI and law enforcement. IEEE Intelligent Systems and their Applications , 
13(1),77 -80 
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications,and casestudies  
Chowdhury, M., &  Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence.  
Artificial intelligence a pplications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -375 
Clancey, W. J., Bennett, J. S., & Cohen, P. R. (1979).  Applications -oriented AI research: Education . 
STANFORD UNIV CA DEPT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE.  
Dhanabalan, T., &Sathish, A. (2018). Transforming I ndian industries through artificial intelligence 
and robotics in industry 4.0. International Journal of Mechanical Engineering and 
Technology , 9(10),835 -845. 
Dick, S. (2019). Artificialintelligence  
Guilherme, A. (2019). AI and education: the importance of teacher and student relations.  AI & 
society , 34(1), 47 -54. 
Ke, R., Zhuang, Y., Pu, Z., & Wang, Y. (2020). A smart, efficient, and reliable parking surveillance 
system with edge artificial intelligence on IoT devices. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent 
TransportationSystems . 
Kesse, M. A. (2021). Artificial intelligence: a modern approach to increasingproductivity and 
improving weld quality in TIGwelding  
Khanzode, K. C. A., &  Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence an d Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a rev iew. Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?.  
 Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
227 Mosteanu, N. R. (2020). Artificial Intelligence And Cyber Security –Face To Face With Cyber 
Attack –A Maltese Case Of Ris k Management Approach. Ecoforum Journal ,9(2). 
Murali¹, N., &  Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –areview.  
Russell, S., &  Norvig, P. (2002). Artificial intelligence: a modernapproach.  
Stahl, B. C., & Wright, D. (2018). Ethics and privacy in AI and big data: Implementing responsible 
research and innovation.  IEEE Security &ivacy , 16(3), 26 -33. 
Tao, B., Díaz, V., & Guerra, Y. (2019). Artificial Intelligence and Education, Challenges and 
Disadvantages for the Teacher.  Arctic Journal , 72(12), 30 -50. 
Tao, B., Díaz, V., & Guerra, Y. (2019). Artificial Intelligence and Education, Challenges and 
Disadvantages for the Teacher.  Arctic Journal , 72(12), 30 -50. 
Weibelzahl, S., & Weber, G. (2002). Advantages, opportunities and limits of empirical evaluations: 
Evaluating adaptive systems.  KI, 16(3), 17 -20. 
Zang, Y., Zhang, F., Di, C. A., & Zhu, D. (2015). Advances of flexible pressure sensors toward 
artificial intelligence and health care applications. Materials Horizons , 2(2),140 -156. 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
228 A JOURNEY TO KNOWN VIRTUAL WORLD (AI)  
 
AKSHITA KUMARI  
B. Tech Computer Science and Engineering  
Email ID:  akshita.kumari2021@vit.student.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence  
[1] The science and engineering of making intelligent machines specially intelligent computer 
system. To the similar process of using computers to understand human intelligence, but it does not 
confine itself to biologically observable. [2]  Artificial intelligence is the past of human intelligence, 
there are many reason to make AI to reduc e human reasoning into logical form.  
 
History of AI  
[3]Deep learning has made significant contribution to the recent progress in artificial intelligence. 
deep learning methods have achieved substantial improvement in various prediction tasks. AI 
systems become particularly essential for their user of AI and researchers and developers who create 
the AI solutions. [4]Artificial intelligence (AI) was born in the summer of 1956, when John 
McCarthy first defined the AI. It was the first time the subject caught  the attention of researchers, 
and it was discussed at a conference at Dartmouth. In next year, the first general problem solver was 
tested, and one year later, McCarty regarded as the father of AI announced the LISP language for 
creating AI software which  stands for list processing, is still used regularly today. Herbert Simon in 
1965 quoted ―Machines will be capable of doing any work man can do.‖  
 
Growth of AI 
[5] Growth of AI is done in majorly all the field such as automation skill and technologies in 
literature its study paste a good impact on its growth in upcoming year it will not only put an impact 
on the labor market but it will innovate the AI. [6]  It has a great impact in all the leading companies 
and economical system.it has also a leading impact of competition in AI field.  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[7] There are many areas of AI in heathcare field and the most important is in medication 
manag ement and drug development. [8] AI has its application in orthognathic surgery with and 
amazing power in image distinguished also a reaaly great impact on dento facial deformities in 
upcoming time [9]The latest Google Duplex Artificial Intelligence (AI) wi ll be used as a voice -
controlled speech recognition system, a personal assistant, to respond to the commands given by the 
person  
 
AI in Manuf acturing and Production  
[10] AI technology has a great impact in manufacturing industry it have core development of  the 
new era as internet plus AI which is great mean of change in upcoming models and ecosystems of 
manufacturing industry [11] Artificial Intelligence technology impact main role in modern 
manufacturing, particularly in the context of the Industry 4.0 par adigm. [12] AI has a great impact 
on production of 3D printing and GDP sector its has a great impact on environment and in many 
industrial process.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
229 AI in Security and Surveillance  
[13] Artificial Intelligence (AI) is used in setting surveillance camera. [1 4] The cyber domain 
represents a prominent potential usage area for AI The role of AI in the shifting threat landscape has 
serious implications for information security, reflecting the broader impact of AI, through bots and 
related systems in the informati on age. AI‘s use can both exacerbate and mitigate the effects of 
disinformation within an evolving information ecosystem [15] It will have a great impact on military 
power, strategic competition, and world politics more broadly it will become  
 
AI in Educat ion 
[16] Importance of artificial intelligence  (AI) is growing day by day, and there is no one to  disagree 
that AI education will bring great idea in the future. Various method  are being attempted to made  the 
topic of AI clear, but students who have no experience in AI education recognize AI only as a 
difficult target. AI convergence education were conducted for 6th grade elementary school students, 
and pre and post tests were conducted in the form of AI awareness survey questionnaires which 
included que stions such as interest in AI, changes brought by AI, and AI education.there should be 
level of awareness in AI education to make a great impact on student as these method are new to 
students many activities are being done to make this possible.  
 [17] In AI applications such as neural network is being used to train computer to perform tasks 
without human help.In these method we are applying to education. Firstly from data science we try 
to add AI elements to online learning environments such as Khan Academy  and many other 
intelligent tutoring systems.From STS we provide a detailed examination of scholarly work carried 
out by various data scientists around the use of deep learning to known the aspect of performance 
and approach and relation the subjects doubt s cleared and the environments setup.  
 [18] With practicing physicians and collaborating with the artificial intelligence(AI) with vast 
amount  of data,sophisticated mathematical understanding is driven by the analytics of precision and 
personalized medicin e which depend on AI to predict the particular desease in a particular patients 
and attributes to personalized medicine  
 
Advantages  of AI 
[19] Artificial intelligence has a powerful amount in diagnosing wrong of building energy systems. 
The very well -known  advantages and efficacies of AI make them  useful in the development and 
management of transportation systems.basically in intelligent transportation systems, real -time 
sensing, detection, response, and control are of paramount importance, and AI can be ut ilized 
effectively in all of these applications.AI provides the advantages of permanency, reliability, and 
cost-effectiveness while also addressing uncertainty and speed in either solving a problem or 
reaching a decision. AI has been applied in such divers e realms as engineering, economics, 
linguistics, law, manufacturing and medicine, and for a variety of modeling, prediction, and decision 
support and control applications One of the most promising applications of AI has been its rigorous 
use in the Interne t such as in search engines Although the efficacies of AI are significant, as with 
any application they are limited in both capability and functionality  
 [20] artificial intelligent techniques are particularly efficient. The potential applications of 
artificial intelligence in fashion industry cover a wide scope from design support systems to fashion 
recommendation systems through sensory evaluation, intelligent tracking systems, textile quality 
control, fashion forecasting, decision making in supply chain management or social networks and ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
230 fashion e -marketing Artificial intelligence (AI) has reached new heights in clinical cancer research 
in recent years. AI is applied to assist cancer diagnosis and prognosis, given its unprecedented 
accuracy level, which is  even higher than that of general statistical expert.Artificial intelligence (AI) 
has reached new heights in clinical cancer research in recent years.artificial intelligence (AI), 
especially machine learning and deep learning, has found popular application s in clinical cancer 
research in recent years, cancer prediction performance has reached new heights.  
 [21] Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) can play vital role in design, 
modelling and automation of efficient security protocols against diverse and wide range of threats. 
AI and ML has already proven their effectiveness in different fields for classification, identification 
and automation with higher accuracy. As 5G networks' primary selling point has been higher data 
rates and spe ed, it will be difficult to tackle wide range of threats from different points using 
typical/traditional protective measures. Therefore, AI and ML can play central role in protecting 
highly data -driven softwareized and virtualized network components.  
 [22] Artificial intelligence -based (AI) methods have demonstrated high performance in 
classification, object detection, and segmentation tasks. Through multidisciplinary and collaborative 
work between clinicians and technicians, the advantages of AI have been successfully applied in 
automatic polyp detection and classification. The new AI -based systems present a better polyp 
detection rate and contribute to better clinical decision -making for preventing colorectal cancer 
(CRC).  
 [23] With the helps of Artificia l intelligence human works can be reduce and would be replacing 
people by machines so humans can do other work. Programming, self assessment ,self writing etc 
these works are a burden on people. Artificial intelligence is like a very useful cheap labour by  using 
Ai the work is done fast and the profit is also doubled. Artificial intelligence can be easily 
developed. Machines does not required refreshments and breaks as like human beings.  The systems 
can be re programmed for work for long time without gettin g bored or getting tired. The science of 
robotics and artificial intelligence can be used into mining and other fuel exploration process by this 
we can save human life because human can make new robots but we cannot make  human. Artificial 
intelligence can be used at industries and companies.  
 
Challenges or Disadvantages of AI 
[24] The application of artificial intelligence in general and specifically in the field of education 
contains very deep dangers that must be studied in depth.  The new generations are already focused 
on addictive monsters that are all contained in a small hand -sized element: the cell phone; which in 
turn connected to the Internet makes social networks twitter, Instagram , Facebook, snap chat and 
others available to the individual who no  longer has time to apply the maximum of Socrates: Know 
yourself.  Current generations seem increasingly connected to their networks and technological 
instruments, but increasingly disconnected from their neighbours, their families and even 
themselves. Imag inary or virtual friends occupy a relevant place in people's lives, who spend hours 
updating their profiles and videos, photos and stories for others to review.It seems that we are facing 
the advent of a culture that worships the ego and has little to do w ith the truly important Artificial 
intelligence has had so much impact on society in general - both positive and negative - that the 
permanent comparison with human beings has become obsessed. In 2011 another challenge was 
carried out that involved artific ial intelligence vs. human intelligence. It was held within the 
framework of one of the most famous quiz shows in the United States, there the IBM supercomputer 
beat the two contestants who had historically had the best performance in reality.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
231  [25] Despit e all the potential, AI solutions have not by large entered routine medical practice. In 
dentistry, for example, convolutional NNs have only been adopted in research settings from 2015 
onwards, mainly on dental radiographs, and the first applications invol ving these technologies are 
now entering the clinical arena (Schwendicke et al. 2019). This is all the more surprising when 
acknowledging that dentistry is especially suited to apply AI tasks: In dentistry, imagery plays an 
important role and is at the cor nerstone of most patients‘ dental voyage, from screening to treatment 
planning and conduct.  Dentistry regularly uses different imagery materials from the same 
anatomical region of the sameindividual,regularly accompanied by non -imagery data like clinical 
records and general and dental history data, including systemic conditions, and medications. 
Moreover, data are often collected over multiple time points. AI is suited to integrate and cross -link 
these data effectively and improve diagnostics, prediction, a nd decision -making.Many dental 
conditions (caries, apical lesions, periodontal bone loss) are relatively prevalent. Building up 
datasets with a high number of ―affected‖ cases can be managed with limited efforts.We see three 
main reasons why dentistry has not yet fully adopted AI technologies. Tackling these reasons will 
help to make dental AI technologies better and facilitate their uptake in clinical care.  
 [26]: The disadvantages of Artificial Insemination (AI) by a simple example of a experiment 
which w as conducted in BAU(universities)poultry farm,Mymensingh, Bangladesh. Some male birds 
were collected from the farm and some female birds were purchased from the local villages market. 
Both types of birds were kept in individual cage with adhibit food and w ater and were given 
abdominal massage at least for three days (at the same time of the day) prior to AI. Collected semen 
was inseminated (0.20 -0.25 ml/hen) directly by soft dropper into the female genital tract. The result 
of the present experiment showed that 1 -2 females could be covered by semen collected from single 
ejaculate from one cock. It was also found that very small amount of semen was wastage by 
container. Thus it can be concluded that AI by raw semen is not profitable (except experimental 
point  of view) until we use semen diluents for commercial purpose.  
 [27] The system making process are not easy as the material are very expensive it cost a huge 
amount of money and time rebuild,create and repair. The parts of robotic repair which people wants 
to fix cost huge amount of money and materials.the jobs are been replacing by robots can cause 
unemployment or human should find another way to generate jobs options AI cant change the 
government to communicate.Systems can easily cause problem if its in in correct hands.there are 
consequences and fear of wrong people. AI is a specific reason for human to become lazy with its 
system automating the load of work. Humans land into the region were human inventions may drag 
to future generations.As AI is replacing the major tasks representive,other works with the helps of 
robots which may cause a significant problems for human interferences. Everyone around us is 
looking to replace a individual person with less knownledge with AI robots to do similar work with 
more efficiency. There are question that machines are far better when it involves working efficiently 
but they can't replace the humanas they creates the team. robots cannot develope a bond with 
humans which is an important attribute when involves Team Manageme nt. Systems  can perform 
only those tasks which they're designed or programmed to try anything out of that they have a 
tendency to crash or give irrelevant outputs which might be a serious backdrop.  
 [28] Artificial intelligence and robotics taken to the extreme contain dangers and challenges that 
must be considered in all areas of their application, particularly in education. The use of robots and 
artificial intelligence  can generate  with no connection to  emotions, students and teachers state that a 
robot  is not imitable because it also lacks emotions. There were more dangers and disadvantages that 
were found with the indiscriminate application of robotics and artificial intelligence in education.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
232 Conclusion  
In my opinion from this research work I have a d eep knowledge of artificial intelligence in 
upcoming time this Ai will basically be an impact on humans as it has vast power in all the field as a 
human can thinks work or develop something it basically can be a great help for human if it can 
become a powe rful source of medication it will solve a huge issues of healthcare in India and around 
the world. Artificial intelligence can become a powerful impact to safe human life in war, factories 
as we can create robots but we can make human. In todays world it h as a great impact on education 
and it can also replace the whole teaching way it would be once costly but in time it would be really 
cheap as one device last long. AI can be a great future for human being.   
 
References  
Abdulov, R. (2020). Artificial intelligence as an important factor of sustainable and crisisfree 
economic growth. Procedia Computer Science, 169, 468 -472. 
Benko, A., & Lányi, C. S. (2009).  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intell egence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230. 
Bouletreau, P., Makaremi, M., Ibrahim, B., Louvrier, A., & Sigaux, N. (2019). Artificial 
intelligence: applications in orthognathic surgery. Journal of stomatology, oral and 
maxillofacial surgery, 120(4), 347 -354. 
Buchmeister, B., Palcic, I., & Ojstersek, R. (2019). Artificial Intelligence in Manufacturing 
Companies And Broader: An Overview. DAAAM International Scientific Book.  
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang , Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Chowdhury, M., Huang, S.  Haider, N., Baig, M. Z., & Imran, M. (2020). Artificial Intelligence and 
Machine Learnin g in 5G Network Security: Opportunities, advantages, and future research 
trends. arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.04490.  
Das, S. K., Adhikary, G. N., Islam, M. N., Paul, B. K., & Das, G. G. (2004). Artificial insemination 
(AI) by raw semen: Its advantages and dis advantages in Deshi chicken (Gallus domesticus). 
International Journal of Poultry Science, 3(10), 662 -663. 
Eldrandaly, K. A., Abdel -Basset, M., & Abdel -Fatah, L. (2019). PTZ -surveillance coverage based 
on artificial intelligence for smart cities. Internati onal Journal of Information Management, 
49, 520 -532. 
Ganesh, D., Seshadri, G., Sokkanarayanan, S., Rajan, S., & Sathiyanarayanan, M. (2019, 
December). Iot -based google duplex artificial intelligence solution for elderly care. In 2019  
Haugeland, J. (1989).  
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., & Scharre, P. (2018). Artificial 
intelligence and international security. Center for a New American Security.  
International Conference on contemporary Computing and Informatics (IC3I) ( pp. 234 -240). IEEE.  
Johnson, J. (2019). Artificial intelligence & future warfare: implications for international security. 
Defense & Security Analysis, 35(2), 147 -169 
Lee, J., Lee, S., & Lee, S. (2021). The Influence of AI Convergence Education on Students ' 
Perception of AI.  Journal of The Korean Association of Information Education , 25(3), 483 -
490. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
233 McCarthy, J. (2007)  Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018).  
Perrotta, C., & Selwyn, N. (2020). Deep learning goes to school: Toward a relational understanding 
of AI in education.  Learning, Media and Technology , 45(3), 251 -269. 
Rich, E., & Knight, K. (1991). Artificial intelligence .  
Schwendicke, F. A., Samek, W., & Krois, J. (2020)  
Tao, B., Díaz, V., & Guerra, Y. (2019)  
Tao, B., Díaz, V., & Guerra, Y. (2019). Arti ficial Intelligence and Education, Challenges and 
Disadvantages for the Teacher. Arctic Journal, 72(12), 30 -50. 
Viscaino, M., Bustos, J. T., Muñoz, P., Cheein, C. A., & Cheein, F. A. (2021). Artificial intelligence 
for the early detection of colorectal can cer: A comprehensive review of its advantages and 
misconceptions. World Journal of Gastroenterology, 27(38), 6399.  
Wartman, S. A., & Combs, C. D. (2019). Reimagining medical education in the age of AI.  AMA 
journal of ethics , 21(2), 146 -152. 
Xu, F., Uszkoreit, H., Du, Y., Fan, W., Zhao, D., & Zhu, J. (2019, October).  
Zeba, G., Dabić, M., Ĉiĉak, M., Daim, T., & Yalcin, H. (2021). Technology mining: Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing. Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 171, 1209 71. 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
234 AN IDEA OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
MEENAKSHI MATTATHIL  
B. Tech Chemical Engineering  
Email ID:  meenakshi.sathish2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Introduction  
In this article, the main idea of AI and the reasons for the invention of the same have been discussed. 
This article includes most of the aspects of introduction of AI and its main pros and cons. It 
discusses how AI has helped us eventually for all aspects of life such as manufacture industries, 
healthcare, government security, etc.AI was made to have artificially made human intelligence to 
solve all complex problems easily, however the early introduction has helped us a lot, but the more 
advancement although helpful have made a lot of problems for human and the initial creativity of 
our minds.  
 The article starts with a brief introduction of what is AI, a small definition and what is 
comprises of, followed an insight into the history and historical developments of AI along with the 
growth of AI in different fields, and its advancements which may en able robots to keep emotions 
and the expressions as humans. Further we see an overview of AI in health care, medical machines, 
industry, economical use and in education. Further we go on to the advantages of AI in our daily life 
and the changes it has boug ht and then along to the disadvantages, which is sure to come with the 
many advantages of AI development.  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence?  
Artificial Intelligence is the process of coming up with highly smart and advanced machine system 
that can mainly do  efficient computer programming, so that it can work in accordance or better than 
human intelligence but without the barrier of biological observable methods  
 Artificial Intelligence is not something absurd or something that can be avoided, it is a genius 
idea to get work done quicker and easier with same or maybe more of intelligence than a human 
brain but might also harmful  
 
History of AI  
The history of AI is quite the interesting one with a lot of demonstrations and imaginations. This 
mainly started with  the coding and invention of computers for problem solving, AI was developed in 
1956 which soon caught the eye of many researchers  
 Further it was used the purpose making the manual processes easier and sustainable with lesser 
mistakes. This idea develope d into the perspective of robots and to robots that can exactly copy 
human nature and intelligence but with more stability and efficiency, furthermore in medicinal field 
AI gaining a wide range of uses, such as analysing difficult algorithms. Some of the e arly works in 
AI include basic works in engineering, knowledge, In language translations etc. Mobile robots were 
almost unknown for 14 years after the introduction of machines. The first development in AI started 
from the advancements in arms and military machines.  
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
235 Growth of AI  
AI has grown more than anything else in the recent years or we can say that there has been an 
incredible development in the field of technology in the recent years . 
 AI was mainly developed for the better production of goods and t hen which increased the 
economic growth, now AI has been used for solving many complex logical problems and AI is now 
pretty much self -improving. AI is nowadays also impacting the methods of doing things . 
 AI is being bought up to do many of the manual tasks nowadays in the era of ever -growing 
technologies and it is also safe to say that it may soon replace most of human labour works, further 
AI is also being developed to have emotions a though humans  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
AI has been proved above  human intelligence in several domains now, this is a great hope for 
healthcare. AI allows better diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of various diseases  
 The main areas where AI is majorly used are for treatment of cancer, cardiology, diabetes etc.it 
can be used find problems in a person even if no symptoms are not shown. AI is also used as a help 
medium for doctors to help treat the patient quicker and easier more efficiently  
 The introduction of AI in the health care field has helped the advancement of prevention and 
treatment of diseases.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
There has been great development in the manufacturing technologies in the years, it has also bought 
about great change in models, methods, and economic growth, and we are also aware of the 
industrial revolution with AI  
 The involvement of AI in various manufacturing industries is increasing the transformation in 
models, managing systems etc. The main development that has come about is the intelligent 
manufacturing which brings about n ew change in manufacturing. AI is now involved in every step 
of manufacturing.  it provides very low error products and saves time. There are a lot of new forms 
and means of AI in production and manufacturing which is supported by better computer 
programmin g 
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
AI now also impacts the overall governance but keeping in mind the privacy laws, by giving a major 
support to keep a review on citizens and its borders by giving major army equipment, bust also 
disrupt elections give fals e information. it has given various models for the security of any country 
such as facial recognition, metal detection, iris check etc.  
 AI is now quite popularly used for identifying theft and bank robbery. It is not only used as 
surveillance cameras but also used to analyse the videos if needed. There is the use of image 
detection rather than sensors which help detect movement of thieves.AI surveillance UGV is a major 
development that has come across which reduces cost and increases the efficiency as it d etects any 
suspicious activity in a glance using analogue transmissions, but also falling into the wrong hands 
can cause many problems even with security systems  
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
236 AI in Education  
When it comes to education we can mainly say about computer as being used a s part of AI. It has 
used for over 20 years now, Computer based training and intelligence tutoring system are the among 
the first systems used to teach using AI. One main advantage is that it creates a level of explicitness 
about learning theories which is  difficult to attain in classrooms. In the kind of system of CAI, the 
instructions are not individualised but scripted for a topic  
 The introduction of such systems has really helped the students to learn faster and better and 
function smarter using the te chnology, especially the introduction of ITS. This kind of system 
especially increases the performance and motivation of the students.by the introduction of AI it has 
also motivated the research centres. AI introduction has also made it easier to solve com plex 
problems easily without much time taken with easier methods and has increased the reasoning 
ability of students. ITS was initially designed to increase and compare students‘ performance and 
better it during a task given at school  
 
Advantages of AI  
There are many advantages and improvements with the introduction and application of AI in 
different fields.AI is permanent, reliable, fast and cost effective.it is used in a diverse range to solve 
the most complex issues easily and effectively without much  cost.one of the most promising feature 
of AI is the search engines which makes any information available at any point of time easily.  
 AI is used in a wide range of field, in the food industry or packaging and testing of food 
materials for safety most eff iciently and accurately. Automobile industry for manufacturing the parts 
and assembly of the product without much time fast and lesser errors than human functions. The use 
of AI in the biology and research -medicinal departments a have increased the rate of  make of 
medicines and the accuracy of the medicines. Economically also the use of AI has helped us to 
increase the overall GDP and reduced the cost of items and increased the amount produced.AI use in 
farming and poultry farming has also made a great diff erence in marketing and production. Use of 
AI has also decreased the chances of error and correction  
 
Challenges or Dis -advantages of AI  
Along with advantages the AI possesses a lot of disadvantages too. If we see the education side the 
teachers face a lot  of problem due to the introduction of AI teachings mainly there I no student 
teacher binds or interaction necessary in schooling. Many small companies face issues and 
eventually must shut down as they are not able to by machines and hence lesser productio n and 
profit and not able to compete with the other huge companies. Human beings become lazy, lacks 
much inputs dependency increases etc.  
 AI although helpful and time saving has reduced the working motivation and imagination of 
human beings as everything is available at a click. Overall, the main disadvantages are the need for 
constant repair and maintenance as one small error and the entire process can be destroyed. If robots 
began to replace humans, then soon there might come a time when they might take over the world 
and human being might be the slaves, and if the robots or any software fall into the wrong hands it 
may cause huge destruction and terror. Still one of the main disadvantages is that the AI is not 
completely able think logically like human b rains, it can still only perform tasks it‘s given 
instructions for and a mis command can cause huge problems.  
 Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
237 Conclusion  
AI has seen quite the development throughout the years, it has advanced to great levels of  
human intelligence except the part of emot ion which are also being worked on into robots mainly. 
AI is much rapidly developing and being introduced into social domains mainly and it also leaves 
many people at risk. Although the introduction AI has very high use to us, but it also has its 
setbacks.  Its being used for almost all purpose from education to health care and industries of all 
kind which also is reducing the available job opportunities for many, it in turn is also making the 
humans more dependent and lazy. But it has also increased many op portunities in the tech arena and 
development of many products which have helped us immensely especially the medical field for the 
research.  
 Taking in to consideration all factors I would still say that AI itself is a great boon to us humans 
but in the wrong hands or over usage may lead to our own destruction  
 
Refer ences  
A Benko , CS Láronyi  - … of Information Science and Technology, Second  …, 2009 - igi-
global.com  
A Kusiak  - System, Prentice -Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1990 – Springer  
B Li, B Hou, W Yu, X Lu, C Ya ng - Frontiers of Information Technology &  …, 2017 – Springe  
B Tao , V Díaz, Y Guerra  - Arctic Journal, 2019 - researchgate.net  
B Woolf  - 1991 - cs.umass.edu  
Barbezat, G Wuest  - Surface engineering, 1998 - Taylor & Francis  
BG Buchanan  - Ai Magazine, 2005 - ojs.aaai.org  
CF Chien , S Dauzère -Pérès , WT Huh , YJ Jang … - 2020 - Taylor & Francis  
D Quintero, FN Lee - 2019 - redbooks.ibm.com  
F Filippetti,  G Franceschini , C Tassoni…  - IEEE transactions on  …, 2000 - ieeexplore.ieee.org  
J Andriessen , J Sandberg  - … Journal of Artificial Intelligence in  Education , 1999 – Citeseer  
J Beck , M St ern, E Haugsjaa  - XRDS: Crossroads, The ACM Magazine  …, 1996 - dl.acm.org  
J Haugeland - 1989 - books.google.com  
J McCarthy - 2007 - 35.238.111.86  
M Chowdhury , AW Sadek  - Artificial intelligence applications to  …, 2012 - onlinepubs.trb.org  
M Waisi - 2020 - theseus.fi  
MM Khan, S Rizwan -ul-Hasan, A Ahmed…  - 2020 International  …, 2020 - ieeexplore.ieee.org  
N Haider,  MZ Baig , M Imran  - arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.04490, 2020 - arxiv.org)  
N Murali¹,  N Sivakumaran  - 2018 - academia.edu  
NA Neumann, FAC de Oliveira…  - 2019 IEEE Sciences  …, 2019 - ieeexplore.ieee.org  
P Aghion,  BF Jones , CI Jones  - 2019 - degruyter.com  
P Aghion , C Antonin , S Bunel  - Economie et Statistique, 2019 - persee.fr  
R Kakadiya, R Le mos, S Mangalan…  - 2019 3rd  …, 2019 - ieeexplore.ieee.org  
S Feldstein  - 2019 - zhizhi88.com  
SK Das, GN Adhikary,  MN Islam , BK Paul … - International Journal of  …, 2004 - researchgate.ne  
SK Das, GN Adhikary,  MN Islam , BK Paul … - International Journal of  …, 2004 - researchgate.net 
KCA Khanzode,  RD Sarode  - … of Library & Information Science (IJLIS), 2020 - 
academia.edu  
SS Osipov, NV Ulimova  - SCIENCE AND WORLD, 2013 - en.scienceph.ru  
V Kaul, S Enslin, SA Gross  - Gastroint estinal endoscopy, 2020 – Elsevier  
Weibelzahl , G Weber  - KI, 2002 - academia.edu  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
238 IS ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE REQUIRED?  
 
ADITHYA NAVANITHA KRISHNAN  
B Tech Chemical Engineering  
Email ID: adithyanavanitha.k2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence?  
[1] Artificial intelligence is the scientific process of producing intelligent machines and programs. 
It‘s a similar process of using computers to understand our intelligen ce but doesn‘t confine itself to 
biological observations.  
 [2] Artificial intelligence is a part of history of human intelligence , in ways that complicate 
mathematical accounts, which showsintelligence emerging naturally and from attempts across years 
to minimizethe human reasoning to anunderstandable format.  
 
History of Artificial Intelligence  
[3] The birth of artificial intelligence ismarked out to philosophy, fiction, and imagination. 
Preliminarycreations in electronics, engineering, and many other work s have guidedartificial 
intelligence. Some early achievements include works in problems solving which involved basic 
work in learning, understanding, and reasoning as well as showing programs in language conversion 
and execution.  
 [4] The regular model for  improving artificial intelligence systems concluded a fixed, known 
purpose that the system is needed toreduce through its actions. Systems evolved within the 
regularmodel that has been more successful. Regular loopholes leadthe machines harder to predict,  
but they will have ahuge impact on the economy and the human lives. I suppose a new version for 
the development of artificial intelligence in which the machine‘s randomness about the true 
objective leads to demandinglybetter modes of behaviour that are mo re controllable and diverse.  
 [5] The problems of making computers evaluate difficult problems were classified into five 
main areas: Search, Pattern -Recognition, Learning, Planning, and Induction. Artificial intelligence 
can do, what its told to do. But wh en not knowing how to solve a certain problem, we may program 
a machine to Search through some large space of solution attempts. Unfortunately, this is a 
inefficient process. By analysing the plan, we improve by searching a much smaller, and is more 
approp riate.  
 [6] Artificial intelligence was introduced in 1950 but there was several limitations in early 
creations which was the reason of prevention of artificial intelligence and was accepted world wide. 
The early 2000s,had a revolution as many of these lim itations were solved. Now that Artificial 
intelligence systems are analyzing the complex algorithms .We are brought to a time where 
medicine can be made using artificial intelligence and can be applied to clinical practice through risk 
assessment models wh ich further improves diagnostic accuracy and efficiency in the medical 
department. The major applications of Artificial intelligence is used in gastroenterology and 
endoscopy.  
 
Growth of Artificial Intelligence  
[7] Artificial Intelligence like deep learnin g algorithm and neural networks, are being deeply 
explored for healthcare applications in aspects such as imaging and diagnoses, risk analysis, lifestyle Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
239 management and analysing health information management. Knownpositives in these areas include 
advanced  speed in imaging, and more insight into predictive screening, and reduced healthcare 
expenses and inefficiency.Computer based clinical tools also makea lot of problems wherein 
commonly -held values and moral principles may be questioned. Wecome forward wit h three 
different problematic effects of artificial intelligence e use in healthcare: (1) dynamic knowledge 
and opinion. (2) Liquidity and possession, and (3) privacy and unfairness. We consider their impact 
on patient/client, clinician, and health institu tion values and suggest opinionsfor their impact. We 
suggest that artificial intelligence -related ethical questsmight show an advantage for advancement 
in organizations.  
 [8] Artificial Intelligence is regarded to be the fourth industrial revolution. Artificial Intelligence 
with the use of big data has modifiedall industries around the globe. Computational systems which 
have programmed intelligence can execute various real -world issues far more precisely and 
efficiently far more than computational syst ems that are determined and hardcoded. Since many 
problems in business growth and business analytics cannot be solved by determined systems. 
Artificial Intelligence plays animportant role in solving problems in the outside world. Artificial 
Intelligenceand  big data have changed the business economy and artificial intelligence is currently 
being used to accelerate business growth.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare Appliances  
[9] The artificial intelligence for economic growth can be defined as the replica which is able to 
have human behaviour and help at the convenience of people for their benefits or a machine which 
is able to achieve goals which are not possible or may be tough for humans who may need a suitable 
environment to achieve. Artificial intelligence is able to perform increasing number of  tasks which 
are not possible or were not previously performed by humans. Artificial intelligence may be 
deployed in the ordinary production for the use of their goods and services, which can potentially 
impacting economic growth and income shares. But artificial intelligence can also change the 
process by which we create new ideas and technologies for helping to solve complex problems 
which cannot be solved in the society and which may be needing creative  effort.  
 [10] Artificial intelligence as competitiveness growth is a factor which is beginning to be vastly 
used by leading multinational companies today. Artificial intelligence is having huge potential into 
the national economy system is enormous and wi ll not be limited to individual companies. It is a 
part of the possibility of strategic planning on the scale of the entire economy which can be helpful 
in many ways such as the search for accurate, optimal models of sectoral balance sheets, building 
targe t indicators for large businesses, forecasting of aggregate demand and supply, optimization of 
the monetary -crediting system, etc. Thus, Introduction of artificial intelligence into the economy 
would build a model of extended reproduction, without distorti ons between different sectors of the 
economy, and thus implement a model of its sustainable growth.  
 [11] Artificial intelligence is slowly changing medical practice. With recent development in 
digitized data possession, machine learning and computing grow th, artificial intelligence programs 
are leading into sectorswhich were previously thought to be only the part of human experts. The 
breakthroughs in artificial intelligence technologies and their biomedical programs, identify the 
problems for further impr ovements in medical systems, and outline the economic, legal and social 
impacts of artificial intelligence in healthcare.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
240  [12] Artificial intelligence has been improving rapidly in recent decades in respectto the 
software algorithms, hardware usage, and p rograms in a large number of areas. The latest 
improvements of programs of artificial intelligence  in biomedicine, including disease diagnostics, 
biomedical analysis , and  biomedical research . The target is to keep note of new scienti fic 
achievements, to develop an understandingin the possibility of technologies, to value the tremendous 
potential of artificial intelligence in biomedicine, and to give the related fields with inspiration.  
 [13] Artificial intelligence is known as a part of science and engineering known about the 
computational ways of intelligent behaviour, and with the formation of structures that show such 
behaviour. Artificial intelligencechanging into a well known field in computer science as it has 
changed the human l ife in various areas. Artificial intelligence has recently come over human 
development in variousareas. Artificial intelligenceis present for better prevention, detection, 
understanding, and treatment of illness. Major areas that use artificial intelligenc e tools include 
cancer, neurology, cardiology and diabetes. Artificial intelligence can also be useful to automate 
spot problems and threats for patient safety with high accuracy and speed.  
 
Artificial Intelligence  in Manufacturing and Production  
[14] Modern manufacturing and logistics processes are helped by moreuniversal and strong 
computing networks. Oceans of data are always being created by sensors, systems, electronic 
gadgets, and people. Altogether with increasing computational abilities, this Bi g Data is being 
processed faster, more widely, and more thorough than ever since. These positives have redefined 
the quality of artificial Intelligence systems and entered a new age known as Industry 4.0. As a 
portion of Industry 4.0, the enormous collecti on of data for smart decision processing is needed for 
normal manufacturing processes.  
 [15] Based on analysis into the process of artificial intelligence technology in the production 
industry in a couple years, we research the fast development of core adv ancements in the new era 
which is triggering a great possibility in the models, means, and ecosystems of the processing 
industry, as well as in the improvement of artificial intelligence . We then propose new models, 
means, and forms of smart manufacturing andsmartprocessing technology system, based on the 
connection of artificial intelligence technology with information communications, manufacturing, 
and related product technology.  
 [16] This research uses a Distributed Artificial Intelligence (DAI) outlin e to usefullyexperience 
the infrastructure available for process planning in a batch making PWB assembly facility. The DAI 
approach consists the entire production control task into several sub -tasks. Then, the sub -tasks are 
brought by the basic elements of  the DAI system called ‗intelligent agents‘. By working together, 
the intelligent systems of the DAI system can come at a solution for the problem. The DAI system 
firstly proposes all possible solutions made by the intelligent systems. Then, a fuzzy coordi nation 
process is utilized to qualitate the solutions and to find the most suitable one for usage. Using 
measures such as the short -term plan, design data, observation data, and CAD processing.  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
[17] On the improvement of s cience and technology, the collectionof the unmanned aerial vehicle 
and camera surveillance systems is being a promising answer for practical problems related to 
security and surveillance operations. The biggest problem is analysis, process, and conversion  data. 
A certain amount of data is not being processed or transmitted. The program creates a starting 
background frame and changes which is sent to server. It splits the interest and then processes only 
the changes. This supports as there is a significant reduce in the data storage and transmission.  
The Advancement of the systems could be drastically reduced.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
241  [18] Chinese technology has become an attractive for many countries who are not able to 
develop the technology possibleand spend for them. Some countries have relied almost entirely on 
China for their technologies and are those who have less human rights and are still considered less 
democracies. Xinjiang is not the only laboratory for these new technologies. The security patiently 
watches andmake s control and can be a model for governments somewhere in the globe. China‘s 
initial artificial intelligence project in Africa was anintelligent managing of its surveillance program, 
making sure that the government can maintain an eye on people. The facial  recognition program has 
the power for giving the government with the knowledge about specific information of the country.  
Zimbabwe has looked China as a model for analysing aspects of society, including 
telecommunication. Legal loopholes have made it easi er for China to take the data compromising 
safety and privacy.  
 [19] Beyond artificial intelligence for automatic robots which can be used for military, China 
has also being researching robots for decision making and using intelligent robotsfor future war fare. 
Operations Command Center mentioned that the artificial intelligencehas potential for combat 
command. China is majorly using artificial  intelligence indomestic surveillance programs and are 
using big data to fight terrorists. Xinjiang is home to mill ions of Uighur who have been persecuted 
by artificial intelligence used by China. In the future artificial intelligence will make it impossible to 
commit a crime without being caught as the world will be full of it.  
 
AI in Education  
[20] Artificial intelli gence is already being used in multiple schools and colleges. They are already 
used to track the attendance and for submission of projects in various criteria.  
 [21] It has been an argument that the involvement of artificial education has impacted the 
relationship between the students and the teachers as well as between students themselves. The 
Artificial intelligence has not recognised and captured education industry but may with further 
efforts.  
 [22] The Artificial intelligence may need a different w ay of processing as there are many ways 
of teaching based on the student and interest they show and can face a struggle if the same way of 
education is proceeded with artificial education.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[23] With the help of Artificial intelligence hu man works can replace people with machines and the 
cost of labour will be cheap with high profits where they do not need breaks and refreshments like 
humans. Artificial intelligence can be deployed at industries and companies and human error will 
not be a problem if programmed properly. Using Artificial intelligence will productively automate 
the tasks and free humans to be increasingly creative.  
 [24] The machines can be programmed for work for longer time without getting tired. Humans 
will have further improvement in the discovery of unexplored areas.  
 [25] One of the major advantages of Artificial intelligence will be that the decisions will be 
based on facts.  Human decisions may be affected in a negative way by our emotions. Machines with 
Artificial in telligence do not need rest and the information can be passed through multiple systems 
as training will not be required. Artificial intelligence will not require creativity as when 
programmed by a human, it can process accordingly.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
242  [26] Artificial intelli gence is better as it‘s more permanent and less expensive. It can be 
duplicated and can perform tasks much faster than the human. The Turing test was proposed and the 
test involved a human interrogator who interacted with a human and with a machine and had  to 
identify them.Artificial intelligence passed and the interrogator couldn‘t differentiate between 
human and the intelligence.  
 [27] The existing artificial intelligence helps in traffic signal timing based on calculations. 
Artificial neural networks hav e been introduced for traffic signal control. Reinforcement learning is 
a new concept in the traffic signal timing arena. A major improvement is that artificial intelligence 
can learn the optimal control strategy from the interactions between the control a nd the traffic 
without knowing relation between them. artificial intelligence is an exciting, dynamic research area. 
The improvements to artificial intelligence methods are beings additional research opportunities to 
all. 
 
Challenges or Dis -advantages of A I  
[28] Artificial intelligence lacks the human touch and has the ability to replace human jobs. It can 
malfunction and oppose of what it was programmed to do. Artificial intelligence can be misused as 
it can be leading to mass scale destruction and also c orrupt younger generation.  
 [29] Artificial intelligence are not able to take decisions for certain items. Artificial intelligence 
can be producing wrong solutions and can lead to problems. Artificial intelligence lacks the of 
common sense of reasoning. Ar tificial intelligence in wrong hands can be dangerous. Artificial 
intelligence will soon start substituting humans in every field which will causing a high 
unemployment. This can lead to crime and poverty.  
 [30] Artificial intelligence is not easy to devel op as the machines are expensive to create, 
rebuild, and repair. Artificial intelligence is making humans lazy as its automating the work which 
are done by humans. Machines cant have a relation with humans if they are involved in a team. They 
have a chance  to crash or give irrelevant outputs which might be a problem.  
 [31] Artificial intelligence is more of a loss than gain in the society. Programs if mismatched can 
cause huge destruction as the processes will be changed. Younger generation get lazy. Artifi cial 
intelligence Require a lot of time and money and technological dependency would be increased.  
 [32] The software of artificial intelligence should be updated regularly to meet changing 
requirements. Artificial intelligence may have many bugs to fix. A  small error can cause of a huge 
number of consecutive problems which can cause loss of important data. The machine will not think 
before acting and can enslave humans and rule the world.  
 
Conclusion  
Artificial intelligence can be really useful for humans and help in the development but also can 
destroy the system if in wrong hands.   
 
Reference s 
Abdulov, R. (2020). Artificial intelligence as an important factor of sustainable and crisis -free 
economic growth.  Procedia Computer Science , 169, 468 -472. 
Aghion, P., Jones, B. F., & Jones, C. I. (2019).  9. Artificial Intelligence and Economic Growth  (pp. 
237-290). University of Chicago Press.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
243 Allen, G. C. (2019).  Understanding China's AI strategy: Clues to Chinese strategic thinking on 
artificial intelligence and n ational security . Washington, DC: Center for a New American 
Security.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Buchanan, B. G . (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53. 
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applicat ions, and case 
studies.  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial 
intelligence.  Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -
375. 
Dick, S. (2019). Artificial intelligence.  
Ghimire, A ., Thapa, S., Jha, A. K., Adhikari, S., & Kumar, A. (2020, October). Accelerating 
business growth with big data and artificial intelligence. In  2020 Fourth International 
Conference on I -SMAC (IoT in Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud)(I -SMAC)  (pp. 441 -
448). IEEE.  
Guilherme, A. (2019). AI and education: the importance of teacher and student relations.  AI & 
society , 34(1), 47 -54. 
Kaul, V., Enslin, S., & Gross, S. A. (2020). History of artificial intelligence in 
medicine.  Gastrointestinal endoscopy , 92(4), 80 7-812. 
Kay, J. (2012). AI and education: grand challenges.  IEEE Intelligent Systems , 27(5), 66 -69. 
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library & 
Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic E ngineering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
Luckin, R., Holmes, W., Griffiths, M., & Forcier, L. B. (2016). Intelligence unleashed: An 
argument for AI in education.  
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?  
Minsky, M. (1961). Steps toward artificial intelligence . Proceedings of the IRE , 49(1), 8 -30. 
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries. In  Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Informati on and Documentation Centre, Ministry of Defence Delhi . 
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Nguyen, M. T., Truong, L. H., & Le, T. T. (2021). Video surveillance processing algorithms 
utilizing artificial i ntelligent (AI) for unmanned autonomous vehicles 
(UAVs).  MethodsX , 8, 101472.  
Osipov, S. S., & Ulimova, N. V. (2013).  Advantages and Disadvantages of AI.  Science and World , 
77. 
Pannu, A. (2015). Artificial intelligence and its application in different area s. Artificial 
Intelligence , 4(10), 79 -84. ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
244 Racine, E., Boehlen, W., & Sample, M. (2019, September). Healthcare uses of artificial 
intelligence: Challenges and opportunities for growth. In  Healthcare management 
forum  (Vol. 32, No. 5, pp. 272 -275). Sage CA: L os Angeles, CA: SAGE Publications.  
Romaniuk, S., & Burgers, T. (2018). How China‘s AI Technology Exports Are Seeding 
Surveillance Societies Globally.  The Diplomat , 18. 
Rong, G., Mendez, A., Assi, E. B., Zhao, B., & Sawan, M. (2020). Artificial intelligence  in 
healthcare: review and prediction case studies.  Engineering , 6(3), 291 -301. 
Russell, S. (2021). The history and future of AI.  Oxford Review of Economic Policy , 37(3), 509 -
520. 
Shih, W., & Srihari, K. (1995). Distributed artificial intelligence in manufacturing systems 
control.  Computers & Industrial Engineering , 29(1-4), 199 -203. 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Yu, K. H., Beam, A. L., & Kohane, I. S. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare.  Nature 
biomedical engineering , 2(10), 719 -731. [7] Yu, K. H., Beam, A. L., & Kohane, I. S. (2018). 
Artificial intelligence in healthcare.  Nature biomedical engineering , 2(10), 719 -731. 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
245 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND I T’S APPLICATIONS  
 
H.S. THARIKESH  
B.Tech . Chemical  
Email ID: tharikesh.hs2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What Is Artificial Intelligence ? 
[1] Artificial intelligence is used to solve complex problems. AI is created using technologies 
ofcomputer science and physiology intelligence.[2] Artificial intelligence is not restricted to 
anynatural phenomenon. The goal of artificial intelligence research is to build a better 
machinewhich can understand emotions and can work more accurately.  
 
History of AI  
[3] Artificial intelligence was myth and stories to everyone. But first one to discover AI was  
classical philosophers who wanted to describe the process of human thinking into symbols.  
 Scientists begin with this ideology and they begin to discussing the possibility of electronic 
brain. The field of AI research started in campus of Dartmouth college during 1956.At first respond 
ofAI technology wasn‘t successful and even scientist had faced many difficulties. Because 
ofconstant pressure from government AI r esearch was stopped. After seven years 
Japanesegovernment started research of AI through inspiring industry and government.  
 [4]AI were neverrestricted to single field it even research of AI in medicine started recently. At 
first there were somany difficul ties but in early 200s, many of those limitations were overcome 
because of deep  learning now AI system is capable to solve complex algorithms and codes. Major 
applications of  
 AI which are used in medical are in gastroenterology and endoscopy.[5]  IEEE Anna ls of the 
History of Computing, 1996 - ieeexplore.ieee.org  
 Over the course of history, women have slowly begun to hold influential roles in the  
computing industry. Although progress has been made, the precipitous journey is not yet  … 
 Key developments in the history of artificial intelligence are described in terms of a model of  
gender (Man of Reason), drawn from the work of philosopher Genevieve Lloyd. Women's studies 
and computer science both evolved as academic disciplines in the 1960s,  but they evolved  along 
very different paths.   
 [6] Although achieving full - blown artificial intelligent blown artificial intelligence remains in 
future, we must maintain the ongoing dialogue about the implications of realizing the promise. 
Philosophers have floated the p ossibility of intelligent machines as a literary device to  
 Help us define what it means to be human. René Descartes, for example, seems to have been 
more interested in ―mechanical man‖ as a metaphor than as a possibility. Gottfried Wil -helm 
Leibniz, on t he other hand, seemed to see the possibility of mechanical reasoning devices  
 Using rules of logic to settle disputes. Robots, and artificially created beings such as the Golem 
in Jewish tradition and Mary Shelly‘s Frankenstein, have always captured  the pu blic‘s imagination, 
in part by playing on our fears. Mechanical animals and dolls —including a mechanical trumpeter for 
which  Ludwig van Beethoven wrote a fanfare —were actually built from clockwork mechanisms in 
the seven -tenth century. Although they were O bviously limited in their performance and were 
intended more as curiosities than as demonstrations of thinking, they provided  some initial 
credibility to mechanistic views of behavior and to the idea that such behavior need not be feared. 
As the industrial  world became more mechanized, machinery became more sophisticated.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
246 Growth of AI  
[7] Role of Artificial intelligence in business is huge.AI is not only in demand because its 
humanabilities. But when compared to human it can complete work or algorithm in mi nimum time 
and more accurately.[8]AI based clinical tools are also developing to control manydifficulties such 
as unavailability of organs such as brain heart. Many of the projects of curinghuman problems such 
as handicaps and all. Huge project of test tub e baby uses principles of AIThis all of the things are 
possible because of AI. It‘s how AI is demanding and needed to society.[9]  Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) is considered to be the fourth industrial revolution. Artificial Intelligence with the help of bi g 
data has transformed all industries around the world Artificial intelligence refers to the simulation of 
human or animal intelligence in computational systems so that they are programmed to think like 
Intelligent beings and mimic the actions of intellige nt entities. Computational systems which have 
programmed intelligence can solve different real -world problems far more accurately and efficiently 
than computational systems that are deterministic and hardcoded. Since many problems in business 
and business analytics cannot be solved by deterministic systems, AI plays a major role in tackling 
problems in the business world Machine learning and deep learning which are subsets of the field of 
AI is widely used to solve and optimize many problems in business suc h as marketing, credit card 
fraud detection, algorithmic trading, customer service, portfolio management, product 
recommendation  according to the needs of customers, insurance underwriting. AI and big data have 
revolutionized the business world and this pa per discusses some AI and big data technologies that 
are currently being used to accelerate business growth.[10]  Artificial intelligence as a factor of 
competitiveness growth is beginning to be widely used by leading companies today. The potential 
for intr oduction of artificial intelligence into the national economy system is enormous and cannot 
be limited to individual companies. First of all, it is the possibility of strategic planning on the scale 
of the entire economy, that is, the search for optimal mo dels of sectoral balance sheets, building 
target indicators for large businesses, forecasting of aggregate demand and supply, optimization of 
the monetary -crediting system, etc. Thus, introduction of strategic planning based on artificial 
intelligence into  the national economy system, would build a model of extended reproduction, 
without distortions between different sectors of the economy, and thus implement a model of its 
sustainable, crisis -free growth.  
 
Applications of AI in Health Care  
[11] B ig data te chnology is part of AI and nowadays big data used as fundamental unit ofbiomedical 
and health care research. It is hectic to store large amount of data in the files andthat's why big data 
technology is used. You can store data in large scale and even you c an find itin minutes. Big data 
application provides cloud system which gives you space to protect you filesand information in 
particular way to do you work more easily.  [12] Application such as machinelearning is brain for 
health care. With the help of mac hine learning Doctor s got advance technology which helps them in 
their complex operations. Which are like robotics hand, roboticslegs, robotics brain and heart. Even 
operations like dialysis, heart transplantation, organtransplantation done using machines.  There is no 
restriction of using AI as a cure to humanbeings it is working really abnormally and helping us. 
Machine learning and big data was theapplications of first three types in AI and the fourth type of AI 
used in health care is living  assistant.  This application  is really  worth  and useful  for older  and 
disable  peoples.Whichth e help of this application many peoples . [13]AI techniques are also being 
applied to the costly problem of dosage errors —where our endings suggest AI could generate $16 Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
247 billion in savings. In 2016, a ground breaking trial in California found that a mathematical formula 
developed with the help of AI h ad correctly determined the correct dose of immunosuppressant 
drugs to administer to organ patients. Determining the dose has traditionally depended on a 
combination of guidelines and educated guesswork —and dosing errors make up 37% of all 
preventable medi cal errors. While this type of AI technique is nascent, the example is powerful 
considering that the correct dose is critical to making sure a graft is not rejected after an organ 
transplant. Using AI to aid clinical judgement or diagnosis still remains in  its infancy, but some 
results are emerging to illustrate the possibility. In 2017, a group at Stanford University tested an AI 
algorithm against 21 dermatologists on its ability to identify skin cancers. The clinical endings, as 
reported by Nature last y ear, ―achieve performance on par with all tested experts …demonstrating 
an artificial intelligence capable of classifying skin cancer with a level of competence comparable to 
dermatologists.‖ Our endings suggest AI could yield $5 billion in annual savings  by doing a 
preliminary diagnosis before a patient enters the emergency department.  
 [14] AI also holds promise for helping the health care industry manage costly back -o€ce 
problems . Activities that have nothing to do with patient care consume over half (51%) of a nurse‘s 
workload and nearly a fit (16%) of physician activities.  
 Technologies, such as voice -to-text transcription, can improve administrative workflows and 
eliminate tim e-consuming non -patient -care activities, such as writing chart notes, ling prescriptions, 
and ordering tests. We estimate that these applications could save the industry $18 billion annually.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[15] There is rapid growth o f AI in manufacturing and production. It is era of ‗internet plus 
AI‘Which shows everything is possible with the help of AI. It includes design, Production,  
management, testing and integration. There are unique patterns to work in production through  AI. 
There are five types of manufacturing system technology which are general technology, intelligent 
manufacturingplatform technology, ubiquitous network technology, product life cycle 
intelligentmanufacturing technology and supporting technology.  
 [16] AI applications notonly for manufacturing but also useful for distribution. It overcomes the 
stress of distributionand overcome the mistakes done during distribution. It finds appropriate 
solution for problemsduring any distribution. It works on CAD informati on. [17] It is used because 
it provides truevalue and paper work which is really important for factories. It utilizes all process 
like planningand control, predictive maintenance, quality control, with the help of situ process 
andoptimization with provides  all products more efficiently.  [18] The traditional production 
paradigm of large batch production does not offer flexibility toward satisfying the requirements of 
individual customers. A new generation of smart factories is expected to support new multi v ariety 
and small -batch customized production modes. For this, artificial intelligence (AI) is enabling higher 
value -added manufacturing by accelerating the integration of manufacturing and information 
communication technologies, including computing, commun ication, and control. The characteristics 
of a customized smart factory are: self -perception, operations optimization, dynamic  
reconfiguration,  and intelligent decision -making. The AI technologies will allow manufacturing 
systems to perceive the environmen t, adapt to the external needs, and extract the process knowledge, 
including business models, such as intelligent production, networked collaboration, and extended 
service models. This article focuses on the implementation of AI in customized manufacturing  
(CM). The architecture of an AI -driven customized smart factory is presented. Details of intelligent ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
248 manufacturing devices, intelligent information interaction, and construction of a flexible 
manufacturing line are showcased. The state -of-the-art AI techn ologies of potential use in CM, that 
is, machine learning, multi agent systems, Internet of Things, big data, and cloud -edge computing, 
are surveyed. The AI -enabled technologies in a customized smart factory are validated with a case 
study of customized pa ckaging. The experimental results have demonstrated that the AI -assisted CM 
offers the possibility of higher production flexibility and efficiency. Challenges and solutions related 
to AI in CM are also discussed.  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
[19] The aim of researches was to save peoples from fake calls and fake companies that's whythey 
created cyber security it was not bounded to particular topic it was help for every problemsuch as 
harassing illegal videos and all with the help of AI and cyber securit y we can getinformation about 
geographical area, sample size. With the help of AI many wars were able toavoid. It is useful for 
army. They can make sure where is terrorist they can easily check contactand illegal sites. [20] it is 
used as information super iority. With the help of artificial intelligencepeople can predict the bomb 
inside the car with the help of underside vehicle bomb detection.Most useful and easily available 
device is security cameras which can easily predict the thief iteven works on inte rnet and you can 
access it through anywhere. Military reconnaissance thisare especially called as drones this are 
perfect source for security it can work as bothtransportation and watching it is easier to use and most 
helpful for military. Border control l iedetector is the is the device to check person is lying or not. As 
many of devices are invented touse and it really protects your security.[21] Strategic studies deals 
intimately with the topic of power. Most scholars in the discipline work with a concept  of power as 
an adversarial zero -sum competition. This is natural and necessary. However, other conceptions of 
power developed within political science and sociology could enrich strategic studies. Approaching 
two typical, traditional tasks of strategy – alliance building and war -fighting – this article 
demonstrates the heuristic mileage of theories of collective power. In particular, we can shed new 
light on the post -Cold War transformation of NATO as well as state -building as a strategy in 
counter -insurge ncies with new ideas of power. Broadening the palette of theories of power is thus 
valuable if strategic studies are to prosper as an independent field of study. Recent developments in 
artificial intelligence (AI) suggest that this emerging technology will  have a deterministic and 
potentially transformative influence on military power, strategic competition, and world politics 
more broadly. After the initial surge of broad speculation in the literature related to AI this article 
provides some much needed sp ecificity to the debate. It argues that left unchecked the uncertainties 
and vulnerabilities created by the rapid proliferation and diffusion of AI could become a major 
potential source of instability and great power strategic rivalry. The article identifi es several AI -
related innovations and technological developments that will likely have genuine consequences for 
military applications from a tactical battlefield perspective to the strategic level.  
 
AI in Education  
[22] Artificial Intelligence is a growing  technology capable of altering every aspect of  our social 
life. In education, AI has begun producing new teaching and learning  solutions that are now 
undergoing testing in different contexts.[23] The field of Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIED) 
has undergone significantdevelopments over the last twenty -five years.[24] The teaching of artificial 
intelligence (AI) topics in schools is important globally to educate the next generation. Also,the Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
249 application of artificial intelligence in early teaching resulted in the intelligent teaching 
system.[25] Though only a dream a while ago, artificial intelligence (AI) has become a reality, being 
now part of our routines and penetrating every aspect of our lives, including education. It is still a 
field in its in fancy, but as time progresses, we will witness how AI evolves and explore its untapped 
potential. Against this background, this chapter examines current insights and future perspectives of 
AI in various contexts, such as natural language processing (NLP), machine learning, and deep 
learning. For this purpose, social network analysis (SNA) is used as a guide for the interpretation of 
the key concepts in AI research from an educational perspective. The research identified three broad 
themes: (1) adaptive lear ning, personalization and learning styles, (2) expert systems and intelligent 
tutoring systems, and (3) AI as a future component of educational processes.  AI, as a broad and 
advanced term for computer intelligence, started to be discussed between the 1950s  and 1980s, 
which was followed by the introduction of Machine Learning technology between the 1980s and 
2010, where learning through algorithms was brought to the agenda, and finally, after 2010, Deep 
Learning emerged as a breakthrough technique for implem enting Machine Learning via neural 
networks to complete tremendously complex thinking tasks. In this context, the following sections 
examine the two vital technologies of machine learning and deep learning to better comprehend and 
explore the world of AI.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[26]AI can do stressful and complex work that humans may struggle are may not be able to do.  
[27]AI applications can be utilized in making decisions or solving any problems.  
 [28] The decisions of AI are based on facts rather than emotion s. Even after our utmost efforts, 
it is a well -known fact that human decisions are always affected in a negative way by our 
emotions.[29]AI has showed powerful capacity in detecting and diagnosing faults of building energy 
systems as it is built based on f ault detection and diagnosis (FDD).  [30]AI is modernly approached 
as it covers the design and development of multiagent and distributed AI systems.  
 
Challenges or Disadvantages of AI  
[31] AI is getting into our everyday lives as a challenge such as capabilities in driving, finding a job, 
controlling our lives etc.... [32] The new adoption of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in the public sector 
is opposed in many ways, but while there is increasing speculation about both its dangers and its 
benefits.  [33] It sometimes can be misused leading to mass scale destruction may require a lot of 
time and money, also leads to increase in Technological dependency.[34]AI could counter the risks 
of bias in algorithm development and issues related to data sharing, stor age etc....  [35] AI comes 
with the risks of cyberattacks and nowadays hackers tend to take advantage over digital life.  [36] AI 
is replacing the majority of the repetitive tasks and other works with robots human interference is 
becoming less which may caus e a significant problem within the utilization standards. Every 
organization is looking to exchange the minimum qualified individuals with AI robots which may do 
similar work whichalso leads to unemployment.  [37] We have been living with the basic 
formaliz ations made by McCulloch and Pitts (1943) for over fifty years now. Their formalization 
included that the activity of the neuron is an \all-or-none" process, that a certain led number of 
synapses must be excited within the period of latent addition in orde r to excite a neuron at any time, 
and this number is independent of the synapses' previous activity and position on the neuron, that the 
only significant delay within the nervous system is synaptic delay, that the activity of any inhibitory 
synapse absolut ely prevents excitation of the neuron at that time, and that the structure of the net ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
250 does not change with time. With the addition of changing synaptic weights by Hebb (1949) we 
pretty much have the modern computational model of neurons used by most resear chers.  [38] With 
50 years of additional neuroscience, we now know that there is much more to real neurons. Can 
newer models provide us with new computational tools, and will they lead to new insights to 
challenge the learning capabilities that we see in bi ological learning. Over time we become trapped 
in our shared visions of appropriate ways to tackle problems, and even more trapped by our funding 
sources where we must constantly justify ourselves by making incremental progress. Sometimes it is 
worthwhile stepping back and taking an entirely new (or perhaps very old) look at some problems 
and to think about solving them in new ways. This takes courage as we may be leading ourselves 
into aren‘t sorts of solutions that will for many years have poorer performa nce than existing 
solutions. With years of perseverance, we may be able to overcome initial problems with the new 
approaches and eventually leapfrog to better performance. Or we may turn out to be totally wrong. 
That is where the courage comes in.  
 
Conclu sion 
In my opinion Artificial Intelligence would play a key role in many fields which would  
 Make work easier. It has been successful in many fields and will be promoted in many other  
Fields  too. Though it has some disadvantages but still gives us more benefit.  
 
References  
Abdulov, Rafael. "Artificial intelligence as an important factor of sustainable and crisis -free 
economic growth."  Procedia Computer Science  169 (2020): 468 -472. 
Adam, Alison. "Constructions of gender in the history of artificial intell igence."  IEEE Annals of the 
History of Computing  18, no. 3 (1996): 47 -53. Goyal, Amita. "Women in computing: 
historical roles, the perpetual glass ceiling, and current opportunities."  IEEE Annals of the 
History of Computing  18, no. 3 (1996): 36 -42. Estrin,  Thelma. "Women's studies and 
computer science: Their intersection."  IEEE Annals of the History of Computing  18, no. 3 
(1996): 43 -46. 
Adams, Julie A. "Multiagent systems: A modern approach to distributed artificial intelligence." AI 
Magazine 22, no. 2 (2001): 105 -105. 
Aghion, P., Jones, B. & Jones, C. I. (2019). 9. Artificial Intelligence and Economic Growth (pp. 
237-290). University of Chicago Press.  
Alhayani, B., Mohammed, H. J., Chaloob, I. Z., & Ahmed, J. S. (2021). Effectiveness of artificial 
intelligence techniques against cyber security risks apply of IT industry. Materials Today: 
Proceedings.  
Benko, A., &Lányi, C. S. (2009). History of artificial intelligence. In the Encyclopedia of 
Information Science and Technology, Second Edition (pp. 1759 -1762). IGI Global.  
Bhbosale, S., V. Pujari, and Z. Multani. "Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial Intellegence." 
Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal (2020): 227 -230. 
Buchanan, Bruce G. "A (very) brief history of artificial intellig ence."  Ai Magazine  26, no. 4 (2005): 
53-53. 
Charniak, E. (1985). Introduction to artificial intelligence. Pearson Education India.  
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing  and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
251 Chiu, Thomas KF, and Ching -sing Chai. "Sustainable curriculum planning for artificial intelligence 
education: A self -determination theory perspective." Sustainability 12, no. 14 (2020): 
5568.Hu, Yanrong, and Zineng Liao. "Design of Knowledge Base and Curriculum Planning 
Based on Artificial Intelligence Teaching System." In Proceedings of the 2020 International 
Conference on Computers, Information Processing and Advanced Education, pp. 327 -330. 
2020.  
Chowdhury, Mashrur, and Adel W. Sadek. "Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence." 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues 6, no. 3 (2012): 360 -375. 
Ghimire, Awishkar, Surendrabikram Thapa, Avinash Kumar Jha, Surabhi Adhikari, and Ankit 
Kumar. "Accelerating business growth with big data and artificial intelligence." In  2020 
Fourth International Conference on I -SMAC (IoT in Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud)(I -
SMAC) , pp. 441 -448. IEEE, 2020.  
Goksel,  Nil, and Aras Bozkurt. "Artificial intelligence in education: Current insights and future 
perspectives." In  Handbook of Research on Learning in the Age of Transhumanism , pp. 
224-236. IGI Global, 2019.  
Haugeland, J. (1989). Artificial intelligence: The ver y idea. MIT press.  
Johnson, James. "Artificial intelligence & future warfare: implications for international 
security."  Defense & Security Analysis  35, no. 2 (2019): 147 -169. 
Kalis, Brian, Matt Collier "10 promising AI applications in health care."  Harvar d Business 
Review  (2018).  
Kaul, V., Enslin, S., & Gross, S. A. (2020). History of artificial intelligence in medicine. 
Gastrointestinal endoscopy, 92(4), 807 -812. 
Khanzode, Ku Chhaya A., and Ravindra D. Sarode. "Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review." International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) 9, no. 1 (2020): 3.  
Kiener, Maximilian. "Artificial intelligence in medicine and the disclosure of risks." Ai & Society 
(2020): 1 -9. 
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C.,Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review. Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering, 18(1), 86 -96 
Luo, J.,Wu, M., Gopukumar, D., & Zhao, Y. (2016). Big data application in biomedical research and 
health care: a literature review. Biomedical informatics insights, 8, BII -S31559.  
Mogali, Shivaranjini. "Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries." In Conference: 
Bilingual Interna tional Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and 
Tomorrow, At Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of 
Defence Delhi. 2014.  
Nils J. Nilsson. "Challenge problems for artificial intelligence." In  Proceedings of th e National 
Conference on Artificial Intelligence , pp. 1340 -1345. 1996.  
Panch, Trishan, Heather Mattie, and Rifat Atun. "Artificial intelligence and algorithmic bias: 
implications for health systems." Journal of global health 9, no. 2 (2019) and Moore, Phoe be 
V. "OSH and the future of work: benefits and risks of artificial intelligence tools in 
workplaces." In International Conference on Human -Computer Interaction, pp. 292 -315. 
Springer, Cham, 2019.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
252 Pedro, Francesc, Miguel Subosa, Axel Rivas, and Paula Valve rde. "Artificial intelligence in 
education: Challenges and opportunities for sustainable development." (2019).  
Perc, Matjaž, Mahmut Ozer, and JanjaHojnik. "Social and juristic challenges of artificial 
intelligence." Palgrave Communications 5, no. 1 (2019):  1-7. 
Racine, E., Boehlen, W., & Sample, M. (2019, September). Healthcare uses of artificial intelligence: 
Challenges and opportunities for growth. In Healthcare management forum (Vol. 32, No. 5, 
pp. 272 -275). Sage CA: Los Angeles, CA: SAGE Publications.  
Richard Fu "10 promising AI applications in health care."  Harvard Business Review  (2018).  
Roll, Ido, and Ruth Wylie. "Evolution and revolution in artificial intelligence in education." 
International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education 26, no. 2 (2016): 582 -599. 
Rong, G., Mendez, A., Assi, E. B., Zhao, B., &Sawan, M. (2020). Artificial intelligence in 
healthcare: review and prediction case studies. Engineering, 6(3), 291 -301. 
Selman, Bart, Rodney A. Brooks, Thomas Dean, Eric Horvitz, Tom M. Mitche ll 
Shih, W., & Srihari, K. (1995). Distributed artificial intelligence in manufacturing systems control. 
Computers & Industrial Engineering, 29(1 -4), 199 -203. 
Strong, A. I. "Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies." Science [ETEBM S-
2016] 5, no. 6 (2016).  
Sun, Tara Qian, and Rony Medaglia. "Mapping the challenges of Artificial Intelligence in the public 
sector: Evidence from public healthcare." Government Information Quarterly 36, no. 2 
(2019): 368 -383. 
Tadapaneni, N. R. (2020). Art ificial Intelligence Security and Its Countermeasures. International 
Journal of Advanced Research in Computer Science  & Technology, 8(1).  
Wan, Jiafu, Xiaomin Li, Hong -Ning Dai, Andrew Kusiak, Miguel Martínez -García, and Di Li. 
"Artificial -intelligence -driven customized manufacturing factory: key technologies, 
applications, and challenges."  Proceedings of the IEEE  109, no. 4 (2020): 377 -398. 
Zhao, Yang, Tingting Li, Xuejun Zhang, and Chaobo Zhang. "Artificial intelligence -based fault 
detection and diagnosis methods for building energy systems: Advantages, challenges and 
the future." Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 109 (2019): 85 -101. 
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
253 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE: A HUMAN FRIEND OR EVIL  
 
SOUMYA MAJI  
B.Tech.Chemical Engineering  
Email ID: soumya.maji2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence?  
[1]It is field of science and technology which make computerised program that help to make human 
life more efficient. It alsodoes not need to undergo any method which is biologically observ able.  
 [2]Computational method used to study human behaviour and helps to make their life more 
productive is known as the artificial intelligence.  
 [3] Computer programed devices or machine which helps people in their daily life to do day to 
day life work.  For example nowadays people use robotic home cleaner in their house. It helps to 
clean the house in a proper way and more fast.  
 
History of the Artificial Intelligence  
[4]In early times artificial intelligence was only thought is friction and imagination,  but as the time 
passed some basic invitation in field of engineering and electronic items lead to the influence of the 
artificial intelligence.  Artificial intelligence also got a boost when people started to learn basic 
programming and started to imply in  their life resulted a positive impact in people life.  
 [5] Twenty years ago everyone was not familiar with the benefits of artificial intelligence and 
their application. So they were not able to implyin their dailylife. For example everyone did not have 
an android phone twenty years ago, whereas today most of people have android phone now a days. 
With the flow of time there are modification and new technology introduced in the mobile phone 
such as biometrics lock, water resistance, etc. which was beyond i magination few years back.  
 [6] Nowadays artificial intelligence has become a must for all kind of people living in modern 
society which was an only an imagination few years before. It has helped the world in many field 
and leads to many new innovations an d applied in practical life. Expert believes that artificial 
intelligence is becoming self depend and improving day by day with new innovation and 
implementation in world.  
 [7] All the companies irrespective of any small or large scale industry started to implement the 
use of artificial intelligence. Artificial intelligence solves many problem of the industrialist by cut -
off the labour charges and expenses and it also help to increase the productivity and maintain quality 
of the finished product. Therefore introduction to the artificial intelligence have a positive as well as 
negative impact in society.   
 [8] Artificial intelligence has helped to solve and learn many activities and project irrespective 
of any field. It has turned out be excellent at discovering new ideas and are applicable in domain of 
business, science and government. With the introduction of computer, data can be stored in more 
organized manner and can be accessed by anyone who has accessibility from any part of world at 
any point o f time.   
 
Artificial Intelligence in India  
[9] Artificial intelligence played a key role to uplift the development in country. With the flow of 
time India has used the artificial intelligence technology efficiently to become more productive and 
efficient.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
254  [10]In the last twenty years there has a huge implementation of the artificial intelligence in 
India. In recent times out of ten people around eight people use artificial intelligence device.  
 [11]We know that farming is one the most common work which peo ple of India do for their 
living directly or indirectly. Artificial intelligence played a vital role in field of agriculture. With the 
application of the harvesting machine now a farmer can harvest more quickly compared to that what 
he did manually. Differ ent method and Artificial intelligence machine have helped in irrigation 
process to make it faster and efficient. Governmentmust play an important role here to provide with 
all facilities and satisfy all the need which farmers need to use an AI machine.   
 [12] Indian government also has lot of implementation or use AI in a huge scale. Government 
uses AI technology or devices to keep old records of data. This data can be accessed at any time or 
can be used for future strategic planning.  
 [13] Indian Space Re search Organization (ISRO) is space explorer agency of India, has also 
played an important role in growth of artificial intelligence in India. Satellite launched by ISRO help 
us in our day to day life. For example, we can fetch any live casting which happe ns in any part of 
world.  
 [14]It is fact that with AI has a positive impact in India but it is also true that it also have same 
percentage of negative impact in India. There are many cybercrime which are happening with the 
common people. Some of the cyber crime are phishing, hacking, cookies, malware, etc.  
 [15] Electronic mode of payment has become a common thing or a practice in India. But there 
are many people who are not able to use or apply it. This is one of the main reasons India cannot 
totally depen d on electronic mode of payment or on Artificial intelligence technologies or machines.   
 [16]Till now many old age people or old generation people are not that good with the AI 
machines which is a major drawback in India. Due to this reason we cannot full y depend on the AI 
system.  
 [17] AI technology has helped industrialist or a business man a lot, but it also resulted in 
unemployment of lower and middle class family who directly or indirectly depend on industry for 
their income. It has resulted is increa se in starvation rate in country.  
 [18]In future, India will have more application of AI system. There are many projects going on 
India which will uplift the AI usage. For example Bullet train will reduce the time of journey 
between Mumbai and Ahmedabad.  
  
Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare Appliances  
[19] There is a great impact of artificial intelligence in field of healthcare with pass  of time which 
resulted in reduction of work load of doctors and nurses.  
 [20] Many type of sensor are introduced and  used in medical fieldwith introduction of AI  
technology. For example tactile sensor based e -skin is the artificial intelligence device used  for 
complex characteristics of human skin.  
 [21] Interactive robots are also used in healthcare with the help compu ter and program which  
keep a track on the patients‘ health status and also help in diagnose with illness which a  patient is 
suffering  from.   
 [22] Robotics system is used for high accuracy task which is not possible for humans. With  help 
of AI devices now operation can be done with more faster and percentage of error in less  as they are 
more accurate.   Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
255  [23]Now a day‘s doctor doesn‘t have to remember each and every data which usually doctor did 
twenty years ago. Artificial intelligence has also help doctors , nurses to reduce their mental pressure 
and helps to do high risk jobs more accurate related to patients health. It also help staff to take 
decision more precisely and accurate with less percentage of error.  
 [24] With application of AI, now a person who lost their body parts can again get back them in 
form of artificial part which mainly solve the problem.  
 [25] In last few years there has been a positive growth of artificial intelligence in field of 
healthcare. There are many project which are under construction, when it will develop it would have 
more implementation of artificial intelligence. As per report  or research of expert, artificial 
intelligence devices or technology can completely take over the work of doctors in upcoming 
decades.  
 [26] In this modern world mobile phone are also considered as a mini hospital and are used it 
emergency. There are man y application which are been used for medical purpose.  
 [27] With the development of artificial intelligence and withits application pharmaceutical  
companies can now manufacture huge number of medicines and medical related stuff at faster rate 
compared to before application of AI technology.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Manufacturing and Production  
[28]. Computer network and artificial intelligence has positive and powerful impact in revolution of 
manufacturing and production industry. With the wide availabi lity of artificial intelligence product 
like sensors, smart devices, machine productivity has increased in recent time. Industrialist and 
business man has showed their interest in AI technology. With the use of artificial intelligence, 
product are analysed  faster, more deeply and broadly which help a company or an industry for a 
long run.  
 [29] With introduction of the artificial intelligence efficiency, quality and quantity of the 
product has increased. It also provided with cost -effective and environment friendly. These all 
resulted high competition of manufacturing enterprise or group in market.  
 [30] Many manufacturing industries depend on robots for their development of product. 
Automobile industry was one of the first industry sectors to implement use of artificial technology. 
Robots are used for manufacturing of car, its part and also used to assembly the automobile.  
 [31] Smartphone manufacturing industries have high impact of artificial intelligence technology. 
Every now and then a new feature is ad ded to smartphone which was an imagination twenty years 
back. Biometrics lock, camera, water resistance and etc. are some of the feature. In this modern 
world smartphone is considered as a second heart for human being. Many soft wares, applications 
help pe rson in their daily life. Social media also help people to connect from different part of world 
to learn their culture and also used for entertainment of people.  
 [32] Artificial intelligence is used also in designing the environment cost control of 
manufa cturing sector.  
 
Artificial intelligence in Security and Surveillance  
[33] Artificial intelligence plays a crucial role in security and surveillance. In the recent times many 
new technology are used for security and surveillance purpose. It has helped man y countries with 
increase their security and safety.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
256  [34] IT has made it possible to detect any deceptive identities and any unusual activity with help 
of computerized programed machines or software. By using artificial intelligence one can easily 
keep surveillance and get critical alerts for any unusual activity and prevent any attack or crime.  
 [35] All the countries military forces have started to implement use of artificial intelligence. 
They started to include many robotics and autonomous system for  strength their forces. Artificial 
intelligence will help them to do difficult task with less percentage of risk. They even use satellite 
technology to keep a watch on enemy which was not possible few years back.  
 [36] Artificial intelligence has a great i mpact on military application for a tactical battlefield on 
view of strategic level. Many countries are manufacturing robots and use them in security of nation 
with providing them proper guidance and training.  
 [37] Artificial intelligence also resulted i n revolution of gun and missile with flow of time. 
Many technologies and advance system are used to manufacture these missiles. Missile also 
equipped with advance technology. Laser guided missile is one of the advance technology missile 
used by different c ountry for their security. Rader is also an artificial intelligence technology which 
is used for many different purposes. It is used to keep an eye on enemy aircraft and even track on 
their aircraft.  
 [38] Drone is also becoming an important part in securi ty of a country. It helps to keep an eye 
on enemy and keep a track on enemy activities.  
 [39] As we know that there are many positive effect of using artificial intelligence but there are 
many negative impact also in field of security. Experts believe that  any country should not totally 
depend on artificial intelligence technology for their security purpose. There may be malfunction of 
artificial intelligence devices which may lead to serious issues. There may be cases of stealing data 
or confidential resou rces which is not a good thing for any country.  
 
AI in Education  
[40] In the last twenty years education system has got a boost or has been influenced with artificial 
intelligence technology and devices or machines. Now a day‘s artificial intelligence play  a great role 
in every student‘s life for collecting information and for other purposes.  
 [41] Artificial intelligence has main concern with the development of the human teaching  
technique. Its main concern is with the human teaching process and what improvement can be done 
in process. Now day‘s artificial intelligence devices are used to explore and evaluate a student with 
more attention. With help of artificial intelligence technology a student can be evaluated or 
monitored closely in details and it could help student to understand where he or she is lagging or 
what their weakness are,according to which a student can work for his or her improvement.  
 [42] With the help of artificial intelligence now student can connect to different form of cultures 
and diversities easily. They can learn different kind of language and cultural tradition. Nowadays 
eBooks are becoming very popular day by day. Many students have started to use eBooks which 
solves many problems for a student.   
 [43] Teacher uses artificia l intelligence devices such as smart board, uses small video clips for 
teaching which is more effective for a student to understand. With help of artificial intelligence 
devices work load of a teacher has reduced.  
 [44] We know that artificial intelligence  has helped a lot to student as well as teachers in field of 
education but there is also a negative impact as well. Student completely depends on artificial 
intelligence technology for everything, instead of putting any effort from them. They also use 
different type of malpractices in exam with help of artificial intelligence devices.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
257 What are the Advantages of Artificial Intelligence ? 
[45] Artificial intelligence devices can work continuously and it do not require break or it don‘t feel 
tired with human fe els. They are ready to work whenever you want them to work.  
 [46] The error percentage for the artificial intelligence devices are is very nominal compared to 
human work. Due to that reason it is used to do the risky jobs or it helps us to in high precauti on 
activity.  
 [47] With the help of the AI, industry gets a boost to increase the production multiple times. For 
example in coin manufacturing industry, they use engraving machine nowadays to grave on coin. 
This artificial intelligence machine resulted in increase in production and maintains quality.  
 [48] AI plays a vital role to take a discussion for a company in a long term run by providing 
information in structured well managed way. It results in making of product output more efficient, 
faster and help to maintain quality.  
 [49] Artificial intelligence now can be used to spread knowledge. If an artificial device is ready 
with knowledge, it can be used to spread knowledge which saves a lot of time.  
 
What are Disadvantages of the Artificial Intelligence?  
[50] AI is also dangerous and can cause a negative impact in society if it is not used wisely or 
properly.  
 [51] AI devices may have some error in execution, opposite to command given by the user 
which may even lead to a disaster.  
 [52] Employment of the em ployees is getting affected both directly and indirectly which could 
affect economic of country.  
 [53] Manufacturing and installation of the AI devices are highly expensive. For repair and 
installation it completely depends on human resources.  
 [54] AI can only perform those question or tasks which are programmed to do. User may 
sometimes face crash or unwanted output which is backdrop.  
  
Conclu sion 
Artificial Intelligence has played an important role in every aspect and field. There are many good 
as well as negative effect of artificial intelligence in society. So, it is up to us what way or how we 
take or make best use of it. There may be lot of challenges faced in future during more application of 
artificial intelligence technology. As per my opini on artificial intelligence is both friend as well as 
evil. It depend on you how you deal with it.  
 
Reference s 
Abdulov, R. (2020). Artificial intelligence as an important factor of sustainable and crisis -free 
economic growth.  Procedia Computer Science , 169, 468-472. 
Aghion, P., Jones, B. F., & Jones, C. I. (2019).  9. Artificial Intelligence and Economic Growth  (pp. 
237-290). University of Chicago Press.  
Agrawal, A., McHale, J., &  Oettl, A. (2019).  5. Finding Needles in Haystacks: Artificial Intelligence 
and Recombinant Growth  (pp. 149 -174). University of Chicago Press.  
Beck, J., Stern, M., &  Haugsjaa, E. (1996). Applications of AI in Education.  XRDS: Crossroads, 
The ACM Magazine for Students , 3(1), 11 -15. ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
258 Benko, A., &  Lányi, C. S. (2009).History of artificial  intelligence.In  Encyclopedia of Information 
Science and Technology, Second Edition  (pp. 1759 -1762).IGI Global.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., &  Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary  Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53. 
Charniak, E. (1985).  Introduction to artificial intelligence . Pearson Education India  
Chen, H., & Wang, F. Y. (2005). Guest ed itors' introduction: Artificial intelligence for homeland 
security.  IEEE intelligent systems , 20(5), 12 -16. 
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review.  Ieee Access , 8, 
75264 -75278.  
Chen, M., Liu, Q., Huang, S., & Dang, C. (2020). Environmental cost control system of 
manufacturing enterprises using artificial intelligence based on value chain of circular 
economy.  Enterprise Information Systems , 1-20. 
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morris on, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Gabriel, I. (2020). Artificial intelligence, values, and alignment.  Minds and machines , 30(3), 411 -
437. 
Guo, M. Advantages And Dis advantages Of Artificial Intelligence In Business English Teaching.  
Han, L. (2018). Analysis of new advances in the application of artificial intelligence to 
education.  Advances in Social Science, Education and Humanities Research , (220), 608 -
611. 
Horowitz , M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., &Scharre, P. (2018).  Artificial 
intelligence and international security .Cent er for a New American Security.  
Johnson, J. (2019). Artificial intelligence & future warfare: implications for interna tional 
security.  Defense& Security Analysis , 35(2), 147 -169. 
Khanzode, K. C. A., &Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Scienc e (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Lee, L. W., Dabirian, A., McCarthy, I. P., &Kietzmann, J. (2020). Making sense of text: artificial 
intelligence -enabled content analysis.  European Journal of Marketing  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). A pplications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?  
Mohammad, S. M. (2020). Artificial Intelligence  in Information Technology.  Available at SSRN 
3625444 . 
Murali¹, N., &Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Murali¹, N., &Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Osoba, O. A., &Welser IV, W. (2017).  An intelligence in our image: The risks of bias and errors in 
artificial intelligence . Rand Corporation.  
Spiro, R. J., Bruce, B. C., & Brewer, W. F. (Eds.). (2017).  Theoretical issues in reading 
comprehension: Perspectives from cognitive psychology, linguistics, artificial intelligence 
and education  (Vol. 11). Routledge.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
259 Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Teng, X. (2019, April). Discussion about artificial i ntelligence‘s advantages and disadvantages 
compete with natural intelligence. In  Journal of Physics: Conference Series  (Vol. 1187, No. 
3, p. 032083). IOP Publishing.  
Wagner, J. B. (2019). Artificial intelligence in medical imaging.  Radiologic technology , 90(5), 489 -
501. 
Woolf, B. (1991).  AI in Education .University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Department of 
Computer and Information Science.  
Zang, Y., Zhang, F., Di, C. A., & Zhu, D. (2015). Advances of flexible pressure sensors toward 
artificial intelligence and health care applications.  Materials Horizons , 2(2), 140 -156. 
 
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
260 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE: A THROUGH DISSECTION  
 
ROHAN SEBASTIAN  
B.Tech Chemical Engineering  
Email ID: rohan.sebastian2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence ? 
[1] Artificial  intelligence is the process and mechanism of making intellectually comparable 
machines, especially smart computer programs. It is comparable to the utilization of computer to 
understand human intelligence but does not use any naturally observable methods.  
 [2] Artificial intelligence is also the study of how machines work like human beings using 
mental capabilities by using computer programmed models. The word ‗artificial‘ means synthetic or 
manufactured or made by humans and the word ‗intelligence‘ means the capability to use one‘s 
head. The occurrence of the word intelligence however in this case makes it seem like as if the AI is 
a technique to for generating lots of clever thoughts but in reality the aim of artificial intelligence is 
to generate the men tal capabilities of the general average human being.The term AI arose because of 
the belief that machines would one day be able to think and act like human beings especially in their 
decision making capabilities.  
 
History of AI  
[3] The commencement of arti ficial intelligence was because of philosophy, fiction and imagination. 
Early advancements in electronics, engineering and fields have affected AI.Some early 
achievements include work in solving problem questions, work in learning, representing knowledge, 
interference in addition to programs which are used to display translation, associative memory, 
theorem proving, language understanding and lastly knowledge based systems.[4]Artificial 
intelligence was assumed to have originated in 1956 in partial due to t he famous Dartmouth college 
conference that had taken place in that year but in reality the beginning of AI was in the previous 
year(1955) when the first AI system(Logic Theorist) was designed by Allen Newell, Herbert 
A.Simon and implemented by Clifford Sh aw at Carnegie Mellon University. The system had nearly 
solved and proved up to 40 theorems right.  
 [5] AI has also been based upon on possibilities, fiction and fantasies. From robots and 
artificially beings such golems in mythology, Frankenstein, mechani cal animals and dolls were all 
inspiration for the development of AI and its advances. It was only in this century that the AI 
community has been able to conduct experiments and build experimental machines that test theories 
and hypotheses about these AI m achines based on these fantasies.  
 
Growth of AI  
[6] Artificial intelligence is one of the main drivers of the industrial era and a key factor in the 
integration of upcoming technologies such as graphic processing unit, I.o.t, cloud computing and 
more.[7]  The most asked questions nowadays to experts are about the growth of artificial 
intelligence in the next decade and the specific applications of AI in the future. Others questions 
asked include:  ―How will human -technology co -evolution be around the year 20 40?‖  Well experts 
expect the rate of change to between incremental to extremely impactful and also expect AI 
efficiency in the workplace to be increased.  AI is also expected to be incorporated into more human 
endeavors.Many are expecting AI driven systems to further improve the dimensions of their work, 
home and daily lives over the next decade.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
261  [8] Also AI opportunities will be targeted at innovative, human inclusive approaches and further 
integration of AI based robotic technology to various industries a nd companies the world.  AI is also 
expected to revolutionize the way new companies arise and compete in the coming decades.  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[9] The healthcare environment is realizing the value of AI powered equipment for the next 
upcoming you nger generation. There is a lot of belief that AI can bring advances to any already 
existing processes in the healthcare sector. In addition to this the utilization of AI has proven to be 
more cost effective and is one the driving factors for its implement ation.  
 [10] Before AI systems can be used in the healthcare sector, they have to be ―trained‖ through 
data clinical data including screening, diagnosis, treatment assignment and more, so that similarity 
and associations between subjects and possible outco mes. These data exist in the form of 
demographics, notes and electronic readings from medical instruments, physical examinations, 
images and clinical laboratories.  
 [11] Medical applic ations of AI include : Diagnosis Aid:AI has proved to be way more effective 
at diagnosing compared to even the most experienced human doctors in some studies for example in 
identifying diseases like skin cancer. This is because doctors depend on their sensory organs, lab 
data and symptoms given by the patient.AI systems however just input of all these data variables 
into a model and use this to diagnosethe patient.  
 Health Monitoring: Patients no longer have to be in the vicinity of a hospital and instead can use 
wearable technologies using AI like fitness gadgets for tas ks like monitoring their health.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[12] Smart production systems need unique solutions to increase the maintenance and quality while 
manufacturing as well as reducing costs and this is where AI driven technologies are uti lized. These 
technologies include: IOT, AR, cloud computing, embedded systems and more which are ready to 
produce new industrial products.  
 [13] The application of AI in intelligent manufacturing is evaluated on 3 main aspects: 
application technology, indu stry and practical application effect. In application technology, capacity 
of the infrastructure, single applications, synergy applications, and business development are taken 
into account. The industry evaluation is highly dependent on how well the manufa ctured product 
performs. Finally for the application effect its evaluation focuses mainly on how to increase product 
efficiency and economic and social benefits.  
[14] How Can AI Be Applied in Manufacturing?  
Many manufacturing applications are well suited t o these advantages of AI. For example:  
 Quality inspection: In the restricted area of a manufacturing plant, and AI can be used to 
carry out multiple inspection tasks quicker, more precisely, and efficiently than a human 
ever could.  
 Optimizing supply chains: AI can be used to access specific and precise data.  
 AI can maintain way more equipment than a human at the same time  
 AI does not need to be watched by a human and can work by itself.  
 AI can be used security and Software  
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
262 AI in Security and Surveil lance  
[15] There are a broad variety of uses of AI in security; these areas include cyber security, 
Information security, economic and financial tools of statecraft defense,intelligence, homeland 
security, diplomacy and development.  [16] There are multiple  areas of use of AI in cybercrime 
including: intrusion detection and  prevention, ―Denial of Service(DoS) detection, computer worm 
detection, spam detection, zombie detection, malware classification and forensic investigations‖.  AI 
techniques such as Heuris tics, Data Mining, Neural Networks, and AISs, have also been applied to 
new-generation anti -virus technology ICT also  plays a vital role in policy design, decision, 
implementation, and ultimate productive services. The primary task of this is to explore th e role of 
artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and deep reinforcement learning (DRL) in the 
evolution of AI in aspects such as security  
 
AI in Education  
[17] The utilization of Artificial intelligence in the field of education has been unde rgoing research 
for decades. This field researches learning wherever it happens form traditional classrooms to 
workplaces to improve formal education and lifelong learning. It combines AI along with learning 
sciences (anthropology, education, psychology, n euroscience, linguistics and also sociology) to 
upgrade the adaptive learning environments amongst other features to make the education field more 
personalized, relative, flexible, interactive and extremely effective. The scientific goal of AI is to 
make a  digital model which is  precise and uses explicit forms of educational, psychological and 
social knowledge which are often left implicit.  In simple terms AI is used to open the ‗Black Box of 
Learning‘ which essentially gives the learners a deeper more fine  grained understanding of learning 
of a concept actually works.  
 [18] AI can now be used in many other fields due to the rise in the multimedia and information 
technologies as well as the internet for example teaching. Radical changes have now been made to  
the traditional teaching process which has enabled multiple schools to recognize e -learning as 
having high prospects to change people in terms of education, skills and performance -wise which 
has created more opportunities. for the upcoming generations and  the learners of today.  
 [19] AI had always been considered as an advance in the education field and one of the popular 
forms of using AI in the education field from the past decades have been in the form of robots. 
Examples include ‗Lego minds storm kits‘ , Ozobots and Cubelets.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[20] Artificial intelligence is mainly used to solve problems with the objective of eliminating blindly 
worked areas which cannot be fixed by traditional time consuming methods.  
 [21] Some advantages of AI include permanency with which it operates, increased reliability in 
comparison to a human and cost -effectiveness.  
 [22] Another advantage is that the use of AI in addition to other technologies makes machines 
which makes choices and works in response to its progra mme only unlike a human who analyzes 
many factors both emotionally and practically.  
[23] Other advantages of AI include:  
 Finishes task faster than a human  
 AI can easily finish stressful,difficult and complicated tasks unlike a human who is affected 
by a lot of factors.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
263  AI can multitask and various tasks can be carried out at the same time without any problem 
whatsoever.  
 AI has a high success rate in comparison with the other methods available to the general 
public.  
 There are very few errors and defects wh en using AI excepting the errors in programming  of 
the artificial intelligence code.  
 AI does not take too much space.  
 AI has a small size  
 [24] Last but not least, the function of the AI is infinite.  
 
Limitations of AI  
[25]A major limitations of AI is that  since it is essentially a ‗black box of Learning‘ made from 
variables based on training data of scenarios, there may be issues for AI to act in different or 
unexpected scenarios.Another limitation is that AI are not guaranteed to reach the optimal solutio n 
for any problem and that It is often very hard to gain insight into the problem and the nature of the 
solution.  A third limitation associated with the use of AI methods to solve a given problem stems 
from the fact that, for several AI methods, there is c urrently little guidance on how to decide upon 
the best values to use for a given method‘s tuning parameters.  
 AI also is only as good as the programming used to create it. A fourth limitation is that AI needs 
parameters and it may be difficult to determin e the best parameters to receive optimum results for 
the required criteria.  
 [26] Artificial intelligence algorithms are also prone to being bias in data as they are made based 
on programs and the programs could be influenced by the programmer based on his  environments.  
 [27] Another limitation is that at the moment AI has limited applications for example only I.T 
based applications such as data analysis, predictions etc.  
 It may not be easy to develop the machines because the equipment are expensive.  
 [28] Artificial Intelligence systems and equipment may be expensive.  
 People observing AI see them as very one -sided — capable of powerful processesbut totally 
incapable of acting emotionally or sentimentally.  
 [29] Since AI is essentially incapable of feeling  it cannot respond to/act on unexpected 
situations [30]  in-addition to that also requires a constant power supply to function at the present 
moment in time.  
[31]More Disadvantages include:  
 Creativity is solely dependent on the programmer  
 AI lacks the human s finish/touch on it  
 The increased use of AI means that the dependency on the technology is greater  
 AI development can lead to an increased array of lost jobs and also increases the 
unemployment problem.  
 AI embedded machines are only able to execute the tasks they are designed or programmed 
to do nothing new.  
 AI embedded programs have a chance to crash and give irrelevant incorrect outputs which 
might be a serious setback depending on the circumstances or situation.  
 
 ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
264 Conclusion  
The use and growth of AI is at an all -time high and continues to grow day by day AI has unlimited 
potential and the potential to be the best assistant and a vital tool to humans in many aspects of daily 
life such as healthcare, manufacturing, development etc, but at the same time can also lead to their 
downfall as the use of AI can lead to losses of jobs for example. Also the realm of AI has not been 
explored fully and yet remains to be explored completely. The overuse of AI can prove to be 
catastrophic as it may make humans lazy a nd lead to loss of vital skills and so extreme precaution 
should to be taken while using AI.Despite having all the potential in the world AI has also proven to 
be dangerous because if fallen into the wrong hands can lead to potential disasters. AI also has  
varying disadvantages such as being dependent on the programmer which may make it less effective 
in the real world and also it relies on models therefore it can as ineffective as well.So in conclusion, 
AI should be used considerately and not overused as A I is like a wave it has its highs and lows 
therefore can be blessing or curse at times  
 
Reference s 
Abduljabbar, R., Dia, H., Liyanage, S., & Bagloee, S. A. (2019). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in transport: An overview. Sustainability, 11(1), 18 9. 
Alugubelli, R. (2016). Exploratory Study of Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare. International 
Journal of Innovations in Engineering Research and Technology, 3(1), 1 -10. 
Anderson, J., Rainie, L., & Luchsinger, A. (2018). Artificial intelligence and th e future of humans. 
Pew Research Center, 10, 12.  
Arkorful, V., & Abaidoo, N. (2015). The role of e -learning, advantages and disadvantages of its 
adoption in higher education. International Journal of Instructional Technology and 
Distance Learning, 12(1), 2 9-42. 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230. 
Bohr, A., & Memarzadeh, K. (2020). The rise of artificial intelligence in heal thcare applications. In 
Artificial Intelligence in healthcare (pp. 25 -60). Academic Press.  
Brynjolfsson, E., & Mcafee, A. N. D. R. E. W. (2017). Artificial intelligence, for real. Harvard 
Business Review.  
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of a rtificial intelligence. Ai Magazine, 26(4), 53 -53. 
Charniak, E. (1985). Introduction to artificial intelligence.  Pearson Education India  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence ap plications to critical transportation issues, 6(3), 360 -375. 
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues, 6(3), 360 -375. 
Cioffi, R., Travaglioni, M., Piscitelli, G., Petrillo, A., & De Felice, F. (2020). Artificial intelligence 
and machine learning applications in smart production: Progress, trends, and directions. 
Sustainability, 12(2), 492.  
Crandall, D. J. (2019). Artificial intellige nce and manufacturing. Smart Factories: Issues of 
Information Governance, 10 -16. 
Dilek, S., Çakır, H., & Aydın, M. (2015). Applications of artificial intelligence techniques to 
combating cyber crimes: A review. arXiv preprint arXiv:1502.03552.  
Flasiński, M . (2016). Introduction to artificial intelligence. Springer.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
265 Haenlein, M., & Kaplan, A. (2019). A brief history of artificial intelligence: On the past, present, 
and future of artificial intelligence. California management review, 61(4), 5 -14. 
Hashimoto, D . A., Witkowski, E., Gao, L., Meireles, O., & Rosman, G. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in anesthesiology: current techniques, clinical applications, and limitations. 
Anesthesiology, 132(2), 379 -394. 
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., & Scharre, P. (2018). Artificial 
intelligence and international security. Center for a New American Security..  
Jiang, F., Jiang, Y., Zhi, H., Dong, Y., Li, H., Ma, S., ... & Wang, Y. (2017). Artificial intelligence 
in healthcare: past, prese nt and future. Stroke and vascular neurology, 2(4).  
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review. International Journal of Library & 
Information Science (IJLIS ), 9(1), 3.  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review. Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering, 18(1), 86 -96. 
Lu, Y. (2019). Artifi cial intelligence: a survey on evolution, models, applications and future trends. 
Journal of Management Analytics, 6(1), 1 -29. 
Luckin, R., Holmes, W., Griffiths, M., & Forcier, L. B. (2016). Intelligence unleashed: An argument 
for AI in education.  
McCarthy , J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?  
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries. In Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific In formation and Documentation Centre, Ministry of Defence Delhi.  
Shabbir, J., & Anwer, T. (2018). Artificial intelligence and its role in near future. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1804.01396.  
Ullah, Z., Al -Turjman, F., Mostarda, L., & Gagliardi, R. (2020). Applicati ons of artificial 
intelligence and machine learning in smart cities. Computer Communications, 154, 313 -323. 
Valencia, J. M., Moreno, J. J. H., & Sánchez, F. D. J. N. (2019, November). Artificial Intelligence as 
a Competitive Advantage in the Manufacturing Area. In International Congress of 
Telematics and Computing (pp. 171 -180). Springer, Cham.  
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
266 ARTFICIAL INTELLIGENCE -A BOON OR A CURSE?  
 
DEVANAPALLY ASHUTOSH  
 B.Tech. Computer Science  
Email ID: devanapally.ashutosh2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence   
[1] The science and engineering of making intelligent machines, especially intelligent and 
innovative computer programs is artificial intelligence.  [2] It is a field within computer science that 
is attempting to build enhanced and latest gene ration intelligence into the computer system, which 
does not need the aid of human beings or any other external agent to complete the given task.  
 
History of AI   
[3] In the history, the beginnings of artificial intelligence are traced back to philosophy, fiction, and 
imagination. Early inventions in electronics, engineering, and many other disciplines and many 
other new ideas have influenced artificial intelligence. Some early milestones include work in 
problems solving, knowledge representation, and infer ence as well as programs in language 
understanding, translations from one to other, theorem proving, associative memory, solving 
complex problems and knowledge -based systems. [4] Until the mid -1980s, researchers believed that 
an intelligent system capable of doing high -level reasoning and tasks was necessary for both 
perception and action. This traditional model in view lead to the creation of AI.   
 
Growth of AI   
[5] Artificial Intelligence is considered the fourth industrial revolution. Artificial Intellig ence with 
the help of big data has transformed all the industries around the world. Artificial intelligence refers 
to the simulation of human intelligence and ideas into computational systems so that the systems 
think like intelligent beings and mimic the actions of intelligent entities.  [6] Artificial intelligence as 
a factor of competitiveness growth is beginning to be widely used by leading companies today. The 
introduction of artificial intelligence into the national economy system is enormous and canno t be 
limited to individual companies. Introduction of artificial intelligence into the national economy 
system would build a model of extended reproduction, errorless system, without disturbances 
between different sectors of the economy. Thus, the necessit y of artificial intelligence in various 
fields lead to the growth of AI.   
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[7] AI a well -known field in computer science as enhanced the human life in many aspects. AI has 
recently overcome human performance in several domains and there is a great hope in healthcare 
too. AI may allow for better prevention, detection, diagnosis, and treatment of disease. Major 
diseases that use AI tool include cancer, neurology, cardiology and diabetes.  [8] AI, by virtue of 
their wide application s in personal electronic devices and in monitoring health, pressure sensors are 
another way of usage of the advanced science and technology present in modern society. Flexible 
pressure sensors based on organic materials, which sense the pressure or bp of a  human, have 
emerged highly due to the promising applications of artificial intelligence in systems or appliances, 
such as wearable health care devices -wristwatches, mobile bp monitors etc. [9] The applications of 
AI technology in medical also include ass isting medical robots and devices. For example, telerobots Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
267 can facilitate the communication between patients with medical professionals; assistive walking 
devices can help with manoeuvring, walking, standing, or sitting; and animal -like robots can 
communic ate with and entertain the patients. AI Robots can also be used in surgery as assistant 
surgeons. The AI robots can be of great use for surgeons and doctors during a typical operation, as 
minimal errors and mistakes are done by the robots. Artificial intel ligence has reached new heights 
in clinical cancer research in recent years.AI is applied to help in cancer diagnosis and prognosis, 
given its accuracy level, which is even higher than that of general expert.AI applied in clinical 
cancer improved this area  and contributed a lot to improve human health. AI technology can help 
improve cancer diagnosis and prognosis, and continue improving human health in the coming future 
too. Artificial intelligence(AI) and related technologies are increasingly predominant i n business and 
society, and are beginning to be applied to healthcare. These technologies have the capacity to 
transform many aspects of patient care, as well as administrative processes within provider, payer 
and pharmaceutical organizations. There are a number of research studies suggesting that AI can 
perform as well as or better than humans at some key healthcare tasks, such as diagnosing a disease. 
Today, algorithms and programs are already outperforming radiologists at spotting malignant 
tumours, canc er and guiding researchers in how to construct associates for costly clinical trials. 
Surgical robots (equipped with AI) were initially approved in the USA in 2000, provide 
‗superpowers‘ to surgeons, doctors improving their ability to see, and diagnose, cr eate precise and 
minimally invasive incisions, stitch wounds and so forth. Important decisions are still made by 
human surgeons. Common surgical procedures using robotic surgery include gynaecologic surgery, 
prostate surgery and head and neck surgery.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production   
[10] Over the past few decades, intelligentization, supported by artificial intelligence technologies, 
has become an important trend for industrial manufacturing that accelerated the development of 
smart manufacturing. In modern industries, standard AI has been supported with some more 
attributes such that yielding of products has become the technical core of smart manufacturing. With 
AI-powered machines manufacturing, remarkable improvements in many aspects of production 
from manufacturing processes to end product logistics has been possible.  [11] AI, advanced 
computing and deep learning methods have begun to find applications in manufacturing systems for 
automatic visual inspections, fault detection, imperfect products and  maintenance, the major 
problems in manufacturing have been overcome by AI. [12] In current scenario, Artificial 
Intelligence has great influence on production processes. Research on AI has seen wonderful growth 
in recent years. We find that organizational  factors, such as digital skills, data, company size, R&D 
intensity, have the greatest impact on the adoption of AI in manufacturing and in production. Also, 
in order to gain new insights into the interplay of new technology adoption and global production 
strategies and ideas, AI is being utilized and adopted for maximum purposes. [13]  Adopting AI in 
manufacturing and services operations will ensure accuracy and precision in the process and will 
avoid delays with faster change in operations when required an d cause minimal errors. It will also 
predict risks and demands based on data available to ensure best production. The process of 
manufacturing can be made smarter, easier and environmentally sound, thus avoiding mishaps also 
making the task hassle free. Th e use of AI in the factories can increase productivity and produce 
good quality products, along with ensuring a good safety framework . AI is widespread across all the 
sectors of the manufacturing and production industry, there has been drastic transformati on in some 
parts of the industry with companies growing, developing, adopting, and using AI technologies and ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
268 solutions into their processes and production - including electronics, heavy electricals, automobile 
and also in agriculture. The services sector h as seen significant usage of AI specially the IT sector. 
At the same time there are number of ‗sector neutral‘ companies that develop AI technologies that 
can be applied to manufacturing goods and services. Machines equipped with AI are now being used 
in production units in India that manufacture electronic goods, appliances, mobile phones etc. The 
use of intelligent systems such as AI is now helping the sector in avoiding the hectic process of 
manual testing with the help of IoT and detection mechanisms. A I is also integrated into final 
products as robotic appliances, machines, user interfaces, and virtual assistants. For example, 
ASIMoV‘s Robotics‘ manipulator is used for assembling and in delivery of products. Gridbots, a 
company has also developed robots  such as the High -Performance SCARA Robot23, which can be 
utilized for activities that require high speed, accuracy and precision, which is especially needed in 
the manufacturing of electronics. Another interesting start upthose aids in the field of electr onics is 
Helpforsure24, that uses an AI powered chatting bot that automatically solves electronics 
maintenance and repair issues. For an example, Panasonic, the Japanese manufacturing company, 
has opened a ‗Technopark‘ in Jhajjar in the state of Haryana. I t focuses on manufacturing air 
conditioners and washing machines whose production and testing process is automatically 
controlled by artificial intelligence bots. The AI technology is used in agriculture production also. 
The agricultural manufacturing indu stry in India is of two sectors. The heavy agricultural machinery 
sector primarily manufactures machines such as tractors and tractor driven equipment, while the 
light agricultural machinery sector is involved in manufacturing smaller tools like motorized tillers, 
pumps, and harvesters and other small tools. Initiatives equipped with AI technology are mainly 
focused on enabling data driven agriculture through technologies such as image recognition, drones, 
machine learning, sensors, driverless tractors, and  chatbots - for monitoring, for detecting of 
abnormalities or defects, undertaking tasks like spraying pesticides at correct situation, and 
predicting and forecasting growth and price. There are many start -up companies using AI in 
agriculture sector by usi ng AI driven analytics to improve crop production in agriculture. Even 
though the adoption of AI technology in agriculture can result in more efficient farming and greater 
yields, there are challenges that have been identified. One of the major challenges is to access robust 
data, this huge data cannot be accessed easily due to lack of power and connectivity in fields and 
technical capacity to deploy the technology in fields.  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance   
[14] AI is used in image processing to detect theft and motion of thieves in CCTV footage, without 
the use of real -time sensors. This system concentrates on object detection. The security personnel 
can be notified about the suspicious committing burglary using Real -time analysis of the movement 
of any  human from CCTV footage and thus gives a chance to avert the same.[15] Artificial 
intelligence technology is rapidly multiplying around the world. Amazing developments keep 
emerging from the onset of deepfake videos that blur the line between truth and fa lsehood, to 
advanced algorithms that can beat the best players in the world in multiplayer poker. Many 
businesses harness AI capabilities to improve analytic processing, city officials use AI to monitor 
traffic congestion and oversee smart energy metering.  [16] With the advancement of science and 
technology, AI, the combination of the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and camera surveillance 
systems (CSS) is currently a hopeful solution for practical applications related to security and 
surveillance operations.  Security cameras(cctv) and video surveillance systems have become very 
important security systems for ensuring safety and security of the general public. The detection of 
high-risk situations through these systems are still performed manually by humans in  many cities. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
269 The lack of manpower in the security sector and a limited performance of human may result in delay 
in detecting dangers, threats, risks for the public. In response, various start -ups have developed real -
time and automatic solutions for identi fying risks based on surveillance videos. The main aim of this 
work is to develop a minimal cost, efficient, and artificial intelligence -based solution for the live 
detection and recognition of weapons in surveillance videos under different situations. Thi s system 
was developed based on TensorFlow and was initially tested with a 294 -seconds video which 
showed weapons within 5 categories, handgun, shotgun, automatic rifle, rifle, and submachine gun. 
As per the established standard values of 0.50 and 0.75, th e system achieved a precision of 0.8524 
and 0.7006, respectively.  
 
AI in Education  
[17] Artificial Intelligence is a booming technological domain that is capable of changing every 
aspect of our social interactions and activities. In education, AI has beg un producing new teaching 
and learning methods that are now undergoing testing in different contexts. AI technology can help 
education systems by using data to improve educational equality and quality in the developing 
world. The future of higher education  is intrinsically linked with developments of new innovative 
technologies and computing capabilities of the new intelligent machines. In this field, advances and 
improvements in artificial intelligence open new possibilities and challenges for teaching and  
learning in higher education, with the capacity to fundamentally change governance and the internal 
systems of institutions of higher education. AI favours collaborative environments and intelligent 
tutoring systems to support teachers and improve educati on systems. [18]  AI has been extensively 
adopted and used in education, particularly by educational institutions, in diverse forms. Using 
artificial intelligence, instructors are able to perform different administrative functions, such as 
reviewing and gra ding student‘s assignments more effectively and efficiently, and achieve higher 
quality in their teaching activities, improving the present education scenario. Artificial intelligence is 
currently progressing at a rapid pace, and this already impacts on th e nature of services within 
higher education. For example, universities already use an initial form of artificial intelligence 
technology, IBM‘s supercomputer Watson. This provides student advice for Deakin University in 
Australia at any time of day throug hout 365 days of the year. Even though it is based on algorithms 
that are suitable to fulfil repetitive and relatively predictable tasks, Watson‘s use is an example of 
the future impact of AI on higher education. This is changing the structure and quality of services 
and the structure of its workforce. A supercomputer that is able to provide feedback at any hour is 
reducing the need to employ the same number of staff previously required for the same function.  
[19] Human learning is promoted by applying arti ficial intelligence to education. Information 
technology including artificial intelligence contributed a lot to education. Various technologies have 
been invented and developed to make it easier for students to learn and create an environment where 
teacher s can more easily teach. An application of AI, a technology called learning analytics was 
developed.  
 This is a technology used for statistically analysing student‘s historical data obtained by digital 
learning, etc. and discovering the characteristics of  the student.  
 
Advantages of AI   
[20] The major advantages of artificial intelligence are that its decisions are based on facts rather 
than emotions. Even after our extreme efforts, it is a known fact that human decisions are always 
affected negatively by  our emotions. Another advantage is easier spreading of knowledge. Once an 
artificial mind is trained for something, it can be easily copied and transferred to others reducing the ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
270 time wasted in otherwise passing on knowledge to other humans through traini ng. [21]AI also offers 
to achieve accuracy with a higher precision and this consequently disables the human errors. Indeed, 
the AI technology error is very rare compared to human errors. Also, unlike human, AI are 
programmed to run for long hours. AI could  bring changes to the fast -food industry. AI will soon 
start to affect every dining experience including preparing the meal, taking orders and delivery. The 
innovation in digital technology enables the customer to experience a non -stop service from the fas t-
food industry. [22] Artificial intelligence (AI) has reached new heights in clinical cancer research in 
recent years.AI is applied to help in cancer diagnosis and prognosis, given its accuracy level, which 
is even higher than that of general expert.AI ap plied in clinical cancer improved this area and 
contributed a lot to improve human health. AI technology can help improve cancer diagnosis and 
prognosis, and continue improving human health in the coming future too. [23] Robots will be the 
brains of the co ming future education process. Various reports and surveys aim to clarify the current 
development trend of the application of artificial intelligence in modern education system by 
analysing the innovation progress of the combination of artificial intellige nce technology and 
contemporary education. This is of great significance for better use of artificial intelligence to build 
a future oriented high technology education system.  [24] Artificial intelligence (AI) technology can 
adapt to rapidly changing dynam ic environments and provide multiple task requirements for 
resource allocation, computational task scheduling. AI technology, computing and storage resources 
are placed on the network to provide real -time data processing and also provides more efficient an d 
intelligent services.   
 
Challenges or Dis -advantages of AI  
[25] Some of the major disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology in our daily lives are 
as follows.  
 Sometimes AI technology can be misused leading to mass scale destruction.  
 Program mismatch sometimes done opposite to the given command.  
 Human jobs are affected.  
 Unemployment problem increased furthermore.  
 Creativity is solely depended upon programmer.  
 AI technology lacks the human touch.  
 Younger generation becomes lazy and de pend upon machines for even small task.  
 [26] It‘s not easy to develop machines as the equipment is too expensive. Can cost tons of cash 
and time to create, build, and repair. Robotic repair can occur to scale back time and humans 
wanting to fix it, but th at'll cost extra money and resources. [27] AI technology is unable to explain 
the logic and reasoning behind a certain decision. Lack of creativity in responses. AI cannot know 
when there is no solution to a particular problem. Any malfunction while runnin g can lead to the AI 
producing wrong solutions and since it cannot explain the logical reasoning behind its answer,  
blind reliance on AI can lead to big problems. [28] The great minus is bugs and small errors which 
cost a lot further. When you assign comp lex tasks to artificial intelligence, do not forget that any 
machine or technology can fail. A small error in the calculations or tasks can become a root cause 
for a huge number of consecutive problems. This can also lead to loss of important data, which i s 
available to machine. In addition to all these disadvantages, there is a fear that robots will replace 
people in coming future. Artificial intelligence technology can enslave us and begin to rule  
the world. [29] Advances in the field of artificial intel ligence (AI) in recent years have led to more 
exciting capabilities, but also raised concerns about dangers. A major concern is about super -
intelligent AI agents with the initiative and motivation to attack humans. Existing AI tools are Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
271 already being used extensively by cybercriminals to enhance the efficiency of their attacks. AI is 
also used against other AI systems, in stealing confidential data or in corrupting the operation of AI 
algorithms or in hacking the user‘s system to achieve the goals of the at tacker.  
 
Conclusion  
In the last few years AI has significantly developed and is utilized in every aspect of our life. It has 
drastically improved in last decade and is being utilized in every sector. AI has been used in various 
sectors and it proved to b e a good aid. The AI technology is used in manufacturing and production 
processes, in health care, in agriculture and in various fields. AI technology is also of great use in 
education, in collecting data, processing and verifying. There are many advantage s and uses of AI 
tech, it plays an important role in our lives too, it is used in surveillance systems, managing our 
work, in mobile phones, in wearable tech as watches. AI technology is also used in health care, it is 
used in diagnosing, predicting diseas es, also used in surgeries as robots. AI has many advantages 
and uses, given its uses there as many disadvantages of AI too. AI being a powerful weapon, when 
used for personal agenda can lead to mass destruction. When this AI tech falls into wrong hands it  
can lead to large scale destruction and can be so dangerous as a nuclear weapon. There are many 
other disadvantages of AI, as AI tech is penetrating into every sector of life it leads to 
unemployment too, also being an artificial mind, errors and mistakes  are bound to happen which 
cost a lost further. Blind reliance on AI can get us into trouble. There are as many advantages and 
disadvantages of AI, but what makes use of it depends upon the user. AI has the potential of aiding 
in small task of our daily li fe to large scale destruction when fallen into wrong hands, it solely 
depends upon the user. AI can be simultaneously be a boon or curse, it depends on what one makes 
use of it. In the near future there is a lot of scope for AI. This high -tech AI can be of  great use if one 
decides to use it properly and efficiently.   
 
References  
Abdulov, R. (2020). Artificial intelligence as an important factor of sustainable and crisis -free 
growth. Procedia Computer Science, 169, 468 -472.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multa ni, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230.  
Brooks, R. A. (1999). Cambrian intelligence: The early history of the new AI. MIT press.  
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence. Ai Magazine, 26(4), 53 -53.  
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review. Ieee Access, 8, 
75264 -75278.  
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh,  W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence  in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case studies.   
Ding, H., Gao, R. X., Isaksson, A. J., Landers, R. G., Parisini, T., &  Yuan, Y. (2020). State of AI -
based monitoring in smart manufacturing and introduction to focused section. IEEE/ASME 
Transactions on Mechatronics, 25(5), 2143 -2154.  
Feldstein, S. (2019). The global expansion of AI surveillance (Vol. 17). Washington, DC: C arnegie 
Endowment for International Peace.  
Ghimire, A., Thapa, S., Jha, A. K., Adhikari, S., & Kumar, A. (2020, October). Accelerating 
business growth with big data and artificial intelligence. In 2020 Fourth International 
Conference on I -SMAC (IoT in Soc ial, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud)(I -SMAC) (pp. 441 -
448). IEEE. [6]Economic  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
272 Guo, J., & Li, B. (2018). The application of medical artificial intelligence technology in rural areas 
of developing countries. Health equity, 2(1), 174 -181.  
Han, L. (2018). Analy sis of new advances in the application of artificial intelligence to education. 
Advances in Social Science, Education and Humanities Research, (220), 608 -611.  
Hoanca, B., & Mock, K. J. (2020). Artificial intelligence -based cybercrime. In Encyclopedia of 
criminal activities and the deep web (pp. 36 -51). IGI Global.  
Huang, S., Yang, J., Fong, S., & Zhao, Q. (2020). Artificial intelligence in cancer diagnosis and 
prognosis: Opportunities and challenges. Cancer letters, 471, 61 -71. 
Ji, H., Alfarraj, O., &Tolba , A. (2020). Artificial intelligence -empowered edge of vehicles: 
architecture, enabling technologies, and applications. IEEE Access, 8, 61020 -61034.  
Jujjavarapu, G., Hickok, E., Sinha, A., Mohandas, S., Ray, S., Bidare, P. M., & Jain, M. (2018). AI 
and th e Manufacturing and Services Industry in India.  The center for Internet and Society, 
India. URL: https://cisindia.org/internetgovernance/files/AIManufacturingand Services_  
Report_02. pdf.(06/01/2019) . 
Kakadiya, R., Lemos, R., Mangalan, S., Pillai, M., &Nik am, S. (2019, June). Ai based automatic 
robbery/theft detection using smart surveillance in banks. In 2019 3rd International conference on 
Electronics, Communication and Aerospace Technology (ICECA) (pp. 201 - 204). IEEE.  
Khanzode, K. C. A., &Sarode, R. D.  (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review. International Journal of Library & 
Information Science (IJLIS), 9(1), 3.  
Kinkel, S., Baumgartner, M., & Cherubini, E. (2021). Prerequisites for the adoption of AI 
technologies in manufacturing –Evidence from a worldwide sample of manufacturing 
companies. Technovation, 102375.  
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?.  
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in health care–a review.  
Nagao, K. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education. In Artificial intelligence accelerates human 
learning (pp. 1 -17). Springer, Singapore.  
Nguyen, M. T., Truong, L. H., & Le, T. T. (2021). Video surveillance processing algorithms 
utilizi ng artificial intelligent (AI) for unmanned autonomous vehicles (UAVs). MethodsX, 
8, 101472.  
Nilsson, N. J. (2009). The quest for artificial intelligence. Cambridge University Press.  
Osipov, S. S., &Ulimova, N. V. (2013). ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF AI . 
SCIENCE AND WORLD, 77.  
Pedro, F., Subosa, M., Rivas, A., & Valverde, P. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education: 
Challenges and opportunities for sustainable development.  
Rahim, S. M., Mohamad, Z. Z., Bakar, J. A., Mohsin, F. H., & Isa, N. M. (201 8). Artificial 
intelligence, smart contract and Islamic finance. Asian Social Science, 14(2), 145.  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016], 5(6).  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016], 5(6).  
Zang, Y., Zhang, F., Di, C. A., & Zhu, D. (2015). Advances of flexible pressure sensors toward 
artificial intelligence and health care ap plications. Materials Horizons, 2(2), 140 -156.  
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
273 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
D. PRAVEEN  
B.Tech.  Chemical Engineering  
Email ID: praveen.d2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is AI?  
[1] Artificial Intelligence is the science and engineering of making intelligent machines and 
computer programs.AI is designing of  making clever machines,  particularly wise pc programs.  It is 
used to understand human nature using computer knowledge.AI is mainly divided into five main 
areas:Search,Pattern -Recogition,Learning,Planning,an dInduction.To manage some critical problems 
machines will constructs some modes of environment,  using scheme of induction.  Goal of AI is to 
produce intelligent human behaviour in machines automatically,  in our own intelligence. AI 
researches are free to use the methods that they observe in people or that involve more computing 
than people can do.AI has tremendous implementations,  one of the part is Robotics.  There are many 
research done for artificial intelligence.  One main thing is research done on medic al diagnosis called 
cadeceus program. AI Constantly faced problems in how to make the program.  The ultimate goal of 
AI is to create person or an humble animal.AI is successfully travelling in thier goals and also the 
researchers said that they will achieve  it as soon as possible.   
 
History of AI   
[2] In beginning Artificial Intelligence are traced to fiction and imagination.  During the inventions 
of electronics,  engineering and many other have used AI.  Earlier works it include in solving basics 
in learning,  knowledge,  and programs translation,  theorm,  associative  memory,  and knowledge 
based systems.  It belongs in the history of Human Intelligence to complicate teleological 
accounts.AI naturally emerge from centuries to reduce human reasoning to logical forma lism.  
History also say that AI produce intelligent behaviour  in machines run parallel to make human 
behaviour.AI is mostly used in medical field.  In endoscopy AI is used to detect and rectify benign 
and maligant GI lesions and assess maligant lesions depth  of invasion.  It is also used in capsule 
endoscopy and inflammatory bowel disease.  Thereby it is mostly used by endoscopist.  It also works 
on incorporating clinical practice such as work flow integration,  data storage,  and data privacy.  
 
Growth of AI  
[3] Artificial Intelligence is considered as fourth industrial revolution. With the help of big data AI 
transformed all industries in world to simulate human intelligence into computer intelligence. The 
systems which are progammes intelligence can solve real w orld problems accurately than the system 
that are hardcoded.AI plays a major role in business analytics problems,  it is also used to solve 
business such as marketing ,credit card fraud determination. The growth of AI is divided into two 
groups.1.Task from labour is integrated in growth model,  2.The aggregate demand is introduced. 
With these features AI ca decrease the labour income .When the elasticity is high it reduce demand 
and slow productivity.  
 In a Study AI technology was used to develop individual t ree based basal area(BA) and volume 
increment models.The models successfully account for effects of incident solar radiation,  growing 
degree days and incides of soil water and nutrient availability on BA and volume increments of over 
40 species at 5 year i ntervals.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
274 AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[4] Artificial intelligence is used in healthcare for data management. It is the first step in 
revolutionizing the healthcare systems.  It is also used in Health project and medical statistics.AI is 
used in Orthographic Surgery is remarkably poor to date. It is very powerful tool and it is 
responsible for entire medical profession. It plays a major role in ICT and have huge contribution in 
growth of medical systems. The challenging role for AI in healthcare i s for IOT researchers.AI is 
mainly used in hear aids,  ultrasensitive e -skin,  height and weight measurement,  medical  diagnosis,  
health monitoring.AI is used as key parameters in pressure sensors. Many transduction mechanisms,  
which include piezoresistivity  etc., exist for converting tactile stimuli to electrical signals.AI is used 
as exporation of functional materials for flexible pressure sensors.  It optimize concept and recent 
developments of sensing  devices towards practical pressure sensors.AI also inclu des scheduling 
patients,  billing  ,optimizing  staffing,  creating  protocols,  assessing  image quality,  reducing radiation 
dose and image interpretation.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[5] Artificial intelligence in manufacturing mainly include manufacturing oriented big data network 
interconnection technology and many network technology. Ai is also an intelligent guarantee 
technology of online remote support services. Nowadays AI is used in many of the industrial 
applications. In garment manufac turing it is divided into three categories,  namely,  production 
planning control, scheduling garment quality control and inspection and garment quality evaluation. 
The main problem in garment manufacturing is adoption of AI technologies to realise the 
internalisation of environmental cost AI was applied in the decision of tree algorithm.  Osmotic 
manufacturing is using AI as main processor to concert macro to micro,  these can be interpreted  and 
formalized  in AM -AI linking the following ideas,  utilizing and co mbining the findings and 
knowledge of AM -AI. Idea is , that a flow field,  of every production or manufacturing process with a 
graph.  When using a graph theoretic  network the information amount decreases,  depending on 
degree  of net,  also the relevant informa tion is pertained  in net itself if choosen appropriately.  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
[6] AI in cyber security represents as a potential usage arena for main areas. It is mainly used to scan 
and patch vulnerabilities. Humans should have a great effici ent to visual data to scan like AI in 
security.AI is mainly used to scan the human activities and patch the unusual activities. In 
International level AI is used for military power, politics more broadly. Moreover AI is commonly 
used in Military. Algorithm  named improved soft computing has been created to optimize the area 
coverage percentage of MWSN  (Mobile Enabled Sensor Network). In International Security AI is 
used as voice recognition algorithm,  open source for machine learning and understanding data.AI 
combined with UAVs and ground robotics are protected in the International Borders.  They prevent 
future terrorist attack,  reduce nation's vulnerability,  minimize the damages and recovery from 
attacks that occur.  They also prevent in border and trans portation security,  both domestic and 
international counterterrorism is prevented by AI,  defending against catastrophic te rrorism , 
emergency preparedness and responses are quickly accessed.  Many ISI attacks are provoked by AI.  
The US National science Found ation is keep on researching in AI for International Security.  
Moreover every nations are working on AI for the security in Border and Even inside the nation.  
 Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
275 AI in Education  
[7] Artificial Intelligence (AIED) has undergone many developments over last Twe nty Five Years. 
There are three major developments: 1.  Goals,  2. Practices,  3. Environment.  AIED  mainly focus on 
changes that affect it.AI include supercomputer to include computer systems for education 
process..It is used in making robots.  It also checks the spelling,  pronunciation for chlidren It he lps in 
answering deep questions . In China AI education has become popular in both government and 
private school sector.  The field of AIED contibutes in both derivative and innovative .Firstly it 
brings theories  and methods from related fields such as AI,  cognitive science and education.  
Secondly it generates its own large research issues.  Rising papers introduced a paper named AI and 
Education from web science and google scholar since 2010.70% people are interes ted to study in AI.  
But AI should get advanced more in deep learning and data mining to deal with complex issues.  
During corona period every country used AI as main learning technology.  Schools of every country 
used AI to Teach.  Moreover it is very useful for students for learning.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[8] AI is used by both teachers and students.  For students it is used to search deep questions and for 
teachers it is used in making classes,  question papers.AI is used in E -learning,  where students and 
teachers  are feeling comfortable to use  As AI is used in E -learning issues of time and place are 
solved ,where travelling is prohibited by both students and teachers.  Some robots like Ozobet and 
cutlets help in training teachers and children It records all the dat a thought in it and displays when 
everyone need It improves the quality of education It also develops learning capability and pro long 
the life of application.  Some robots like Ozobet and cutelets help in training teachers and children  It 
records all the d ata thought in it and displays when everyone need It improves the quality  of 
education.  It also develops learning capability and pro long the life of application.  The fine 
advantage of AI is it understands all the languages we speak.AI researches succeed i n their natural 
language.AI is used in most libraries to assemble the books The function of AI can be Infinite, in 
less time.  It is also used to discover unexplored things.  It can take stressful job and complete that 
without any struggle that humans have.  It gives less errors and defects.  
 
Challenges or Dis-advantages of AI  
[9] AI users undergo contemption as lack of interaction and relaxation  With respect to clarification,  
explanation and interpretation  it is less effective then of traditional  way of learning  Human jobs are 
affected and Unemployment problem as been increased  Technological dependency has been 
increased  Requires a lot of time,  money and investment  Critical thinking is not implemented as a 
normal way.  Emotions are affected by AI t eaching and learning.  If AI is used in learning ,thinking 
capacitance  goes down.  It can run a program and even reverse it and run it.  It can be misused 
leading to mass scale distraction . Moreover it may corrupt younger generation.  Lack of human touch 
is hu ge challenge.  It has ability to replace the human jobs.  Younger generation become lazy because 
of technology,  technology dependency increased,  the creativity is depends upon programmer,  
program mismatch is done opposite to the command.  AI is also used by t errorists and terrorist 
attack.  Most of the terrorist attack is not based on AI but some attacks are done by using AI.  
 
Conclusion  
[10]In My Opinion AI assists in multiple processes including scheduling patients,  billing,  optimizing  
staffing,  creating  protocols,  assessing image quality,  reducing radiation dose and image ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
276 interpretation.  It is not something to be feared,  as it will not replace humans,  rather it should be 
embraced for its ability to improve and prolong lives.  In future AI will enable new c apabilities to 
address library users information needs.  It is necessary  to understand the advantages and 
disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence and machine learning for better use.  Library and Information 
centres will get benefits by the development of t he efficient experts system for technical services as 
well as Information processing and management.  From the above information we can see that 
Artificia l Intelligent Technologies can provide more competitive advantage.  At the end we have 
been during this research through the brief history and growth of Artificial Intelligence.  There is no 
top of AI,  there is more return from it  ,who knows what the AI can do for us within the future,  may 
be it will be a whole society of robots.  The continuous development of  AI in education brought 
convenience to business English teaching The complexity of natural language learning provides 
useful place for artificial intelligence,  which can promote individual learning,  provide dynamic 
learning feedback information and improv e learning efficiency.  Artificial Intelligence can promote 
the use of language  learning.  Using Artificial Intelligence it can invest more time in the teaching 
process and become more energetic.  Make full use of Artificial Intelligence technology to strengt hen 
the in -depth and effective development of students learning.  Therefore, Artificial Intelligence will 
make the world more powerful and safe.  
 
Reference s 
Arkorful, Valentina, and Nelly Abaidoo. "The role of e -learning, advantages and disadvantages of 
its adoption in higher education." International Journal of Instructional Technology and 
Distance Learning 12.1 (2015):  
Arkorful, Valentina, and Nelly Abaidoo. "The role of e -learning, advantages and disadvantages of 
its adoption in higher education." Intern ational Journal of Instructional Technology and 
Distance Learning 12.1 (2015)  
Buchanan, Bruce G. "A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence." Ai Magazine 26.4 (2005): 53 -
53.[1]Dick, Stephanie. "Artificial intelligence." (2019).  
Eldrandaly, Khalid A ., Mohamed Abdel -Basset, and Laila Abdel -Fatah. "PTZ -surveillance coverage 
based on artificial intelligence for smart cities." International Journal of Information 
Management 49 (2019)  
Ghimire, Awishkar, et al. "Accelerating business growth with big data a nd artificial intelligence." 
2020 Fourth International Conference on I -SMAC (IoT in Social, Mobile, Analytics and 
Cloud)(I -SMAC). IEEE, 2020.[1]Babina, Tania, et al. "Artificial intelligence, firm growth, 
and industry concentration." Firm Growth, and Indus try Concentration (November 22, 
2020) (2020)  
Li, Bo -hu, et al. "Applications of artificial intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review." 
Frontiers of Information Technology & Electronic Engineering 18.1 (2017): 86 -
96.[1]AbdJelil, Radhia. "Review of  artificial intelligence applications in garment 
manufacturing." Artificial Intelligence for Fashion Industry in the Big Data Era. Springer, 
Singapore, 2018. 97 -123.[2]Chen, Min, et al. "Environmental cost control system of 
manufacturing enterprises using artificial intelligence based on value chain of circular 
economy." Enterprise Information Systems (2020):  
Malik, Garima, Devendra Kumar Tayal, and Sonakshi Vij. "An analysis of the role of artificial 
intelligence in education and teaching." Recent Findings  in Intelligent Computing 
Techniques. Springer, Singapore, 2019.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
277 McCarthy, John. "What is artificial intelligence?." (1998).[1] Minsky, Marvin. "Steps toward 
artificial intelligence." Proceedings of the IRE 49.1 (1961): 8 -30 
Murali¹, N., and N. Sivakumaran. "Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review." 
(2018).[1]Bouletreau, P., et al. "Artificial intelligence: applications in orthognathic surgery." 
Journal of stomatology, oral and maxillofacial surgery 120.4 (2019): 347 -354.[2]Talpur, Mir 
Sajjad Hussain. "The appliance pervasive of internet of things in healthcare systems." arXiv 
preprint arXiv:1306.3953 (2013).  
 
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
278 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
TUSHAR MODI  
B.Tech Computer Science  
Email ID: tushar.modi2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence ? 
[1] The term artificial intelligence refers to the fast computers we use, big and  small machines which 
are used to imitate human intelligence to make our work easier and faster with much less labour 
work. It also involves software s which gives us our desired results faster .  [2] The intelligence or we 
can say problem solving capability shown by artificial things such as robot managers in hotels made 
by humans embedded with mechanisms which solve the problems according to situations  can 
describe the very meaning of artificial intelligence.  
 
History of Artificial Intelligence  
[3] In history this vast growing sector was mainly based on fiction and imagination and this was not 
wrong to think that who would have thought that big compute rised machines and more compatible 
robots will become part of modernisation. Earlier milestones in this field were theorem proving and 
helping in translation and providing associative memory.  [4] In the 1940s when programmable 
digital computers were made i t gave the idea to a handful of aspiring scientists to make an electronic  
brain based on the essence of mathematical reasoning. Some think that John Mccarthy coined this 
term for the first time but it was used way before which was shown in Vannevar Bush se minal work . 
 
Growth of Artificial Intelligence  
[5] Artificial intelligence is now used in many sectors.  In medical, financial,  educational, it has also 
contributed to the economy of nations and the production of big companies.  [6] We can see that in 
healthcare AI has shown great productivity in research of medicines and surgeries including 
robotics. In management we can see robotic workers(as receptionists) also to keep big datas which 
are accessible easily and also help in matters of cyber securities  . Examples of its growth can be seen 
that now we are able to minimize traffic jams because of sensors that sense road conditions. Now we 
can also make calls with the help of wristwatches and use them as mini phones.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare Appliances  
[7] There are wide applications of AI in healthcare starting from organizing patient routes to 
providing better treatment tactics. In the case of AI they are not bothered by the number of patients 
and stretch work hours.  For providing right diagnosis AI uses arithmetic algorithms along with using 
data science from the human body. By using AI for drug discovery this process which was 
expensive and tedious earlier has now become cheaper and quicker. [8] In healthcare appliances AI 
has played a significant role in the development of flexible pressure sensors. These sensors have 
advantageous properties with great flexibility and compatibility in large areas processing techniques. 
Pressure sensors have yet another wonderful application named mobile  biomonitoring which can be 
used for medical diagnosis.  [9] We would never have guessed that science would develop so much 
that we would be able to see robotic surgery as an achievement of AI in the healthcare field. This 
robotically assisted surgery was d eveloped  to improve the capacity of the surgeons performing  open 
surgery. The surgeons use computer -controlled robotic arms for assistance and its end factors.  
The best benefit of using these computerized techniques is that the surgeons need not be availa ble 
during the surgery  rather they can be anywhere in the world.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
279 Artificial Intelligence in Manufacturing and Production  
[10] AI has been of great help in manufacturing systems which are automated visual inspections, 
maintenance and fault detection.  People  are making efforts to use this science in works like 
production scheduling and material handling. AI holds a good potential in manufacturing 
semiconductors.  [11] The manufacturing industries are a strong pillar of a nation‘s economy and 
support many livel ihoods. Deep fusion of information communication technology and product 
related expertise is enabling a game changing transformation in manufacturing approaches.  
Developed countries such as the US have drafted many policies for intelligent manu facturing. S uch 
an example is ― Industrial Internet‖ in 2012 to connect people , data , intelligent equipment to enable 
smart and fast decision making. [12] In case of India as it is an agrarian country most of its revenue 
comes from agriculture sector with the advance ment of latest technologies and their usage will foster 
it‘s growth. With the help of AI and ML systems farmers  can make packaged commodities and 
storage more effective , with lower wastage , and it can also provide intelligent data about the crops to 
facilitate smart inputs.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Security and Surveillance  
[13] Now in this developing world there is also a growing  need for advanced security systems. AI 
has proved its importance by providing various intelligent softwares and machine s. Basic examples 
are CCTV cameras which are used for surveillance and also by using AI and Deep Neural Networks 
the VCA softwares are being trained to identify and distinguish between various objects.[14] In law 
enforcement the face recognition software i s of great use to identify the criminals from their past 
records.This feature has made their work faster and they are able to collect such vast data with great 
ease. In this field machine learning techniques can be used for regeneration and to compare two 
video backgrounds and to help forensic teams for identifying vehicles. We can say that Artificial 
Intelligence is the coming evolution in video analytics.Video monitoring softwares which is growing 
with time also plays an important role in the military [15 ] To facilitate surveillance  facilities AI 
helps in detecting if a person is entering a restricted area or if there are any unusual behaviors and it 
reports it.  AI uses the surveillance data to ensure that the person has paid for the parkings. Countries 
like the US and China have developed millions of surveillance cameras and are leading in this field. 
China is supplying AI based technologies to at least 60 countries.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Education  
[16] In education AI has provided benefits to both t eachers and students. Now the student can learn 
from a teacher while they are in their homes and also in the cases when  they are travelling via 
phones or laptops. There were times when students had to buy a decent bundle of books but now we 
can download st udy materials in our phones and laptops and can access them anytime ,  this has also 
been a good benefit for students. For any information they can access google or other platforms for 
solving doubts or to understand topics for free. [17]  There are also pai d platforms where we can 
prepare for different competitive exams and get guidance  from teachers with good qualifications . 
Some of these platforms are unacademy , byjus, and vedantu. These types of platforms are of great 
benefit for students and for people  with good qualifications who are looking to teach the students.  
[18] The areas in which AI has been applied in the education field are robotics video conferencing 
audiovisual files content development. Also in administrative tasks such as reviewing  studen ts' 
work, grading and providing feedback to the students.In this pandemic we have seen various ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
280 examples like zoom meeting and many more where educational institutions have taken online 
classes and these are good examples in which students are taught virtua lly and their study materials 
have been provided as soft copies like pdfs. In some countries people are also trying to use robots as 
teachers which is an ongoing project. It will take time but steps are taken to try to incorporate them 
in smart classes.  
 
Advantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[19] AI has provided benefits in a vast numbe r of sectors such as healthcare , education , 
management , and security. In healthcare AI can help researchers to collect vast data from various 
resources. One example is that a  medical research body like Childhood Cancer Data Lab is trying to 
develop useful software for medical practitioners. [20] In education students have experienced many 
benefits like they can study anywhere just they need their smartphones free  or paid. They  have the 
freedom to choose their favourite teacher so they can feel comfortable and have access to study 
materials whenever they want. This also helps teachers as it increases requirements for good 
teachers who can teach on such platforms in their homes a nd also with animations and different 
methods more creative interaction can be made between students and teach ers. [21] As one‘s 
business grows they need better technology and systems for maintenance security and production  
for their buisnesses. AI integr ated systems provide this better quality and this also results in 
reduction of human error for management. In the pharmaceutical sector they can use this technology 
for drug discovery data analysis and retailers can use this to strengthen their marketing m ethods. 
[22] Security is very important for anyone whether it can be physical or virtual(on digital media) 
whether it can be for a person or any organisation. With this we have heard the word 
CYBERSECURITY  a lot of times. AI plays an important role to make  it easier and the benefits it 
provides in cybersecurity are, to be able to maintain large amounts of data and to detect threats that 
are designed as routine activities for big or mid sized firms. One more  good feature is that AI 
cybersecurity can learn ov er time. That means over time AI solutions learn about regular traffic and 
can spot deviations from the norm.  [23] Artificial Intelligence can also be useful for law 
enforcement and crime solving. One of the basic examples is to store the details of criminals and 
their DNA in such an efficient system that can be used to match it in the future. AI systems can also 
help authorities to find if any goods are being illegally transported outside the country. Face 
detection softwares are also widely used in police work and are very useful for identifications. 
Surveying scenes of cri me can be done using AI cameras .  
 
Challenges of Artificial Intelligence  
[24] As AI has provided us so many benefits we might not be able to look at the cons that also 
comes with A I. In the field regarding manufacturing and education where AI has provided such 
benefits it has also raised problems such as depletion of job requirements for people as these works 
are now done by machines  and also these machines are not easy to build, th ey require equipment 
which are expensive and thus adds extra pressure on manufacturing costs. Now as students can get 
any answer they want just by searching they have become lazy and completely dependent on their 
devices like mobile phones. There are  also many questions on the credibility of  E-learning  like it 
may negatively impact socialization skills for the students as these skills are important and also they 
fail in providing real life experience which is an important factor. [25]  As AI has provided man y 
benefits in healthcare there also are some limitations as even though it is used, human surveillance is Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
281 still required. As in surgeries robots perform logically but sometimes because of unusual problems it 
can endanger patients life. There can also be in accuracies in medical diagnosis because o f some 
portions of missing data , also it may result in job depletion. According to a World economic forum 
report AI will result in the displacement of 75 million jobs by 2022 which is a growing number and 
increasing  problem.  [26] In business also there are some limitations of AI as there is a shortage of 
skilled people with adequate training to effectively operate AI solutions. Another big reason is cost, 
as the latest smart technologies can be complex and it will ad d to the cost to operate them and their 
maintenance to be on par with the competition. There are also some measurements that are needed 
to be taken in businesses like customer privacy and technological complexity as these can be in 
constant danger if not p rovided with right security and maintenance.  [27] In agriculture there are 
challenges faced by farmers using new AI technologies. Because of lack of experience on using such 
complex systems and there are high number of those who believe that these technolo gies are not for 
agriculture sector and many have no experience in operating simple technology also, therefore in 
developing countries it is important for the tech companies to provide training and information to 
these farmers to do business in agriculture  sector. There are also security issues  since there are no 
clear policies; these can lead to legal issues and cyber attacks.  [28] As science and technology is 
progressing different nations are trying to incorporate use of AI in military training and warfar e but 
there are some challenges in using these technologies like reduction of the strategic stability, AI also 
fails in doing multitask on battlefield or we can say that at present there is no technology that can 
identify enemies and at same time use favou rable method according to the situation. One more big 
problem is that the AI systems are unable to explain why they made their decision because it is 
important to know as for legal and moral purposes and in the end they are also in danger because of 
poor d ata or small mistakes in security of such systems.  
 
Conclusion  
I think that many of us have been experiencing benefits of AI in our lives  either by knowing it or 
not. Some examples are taking online classes, watching  large scale production of various produ cts 
by computed machines.  
 Introduction of AI has definitely no doubt helped us in many ways making our work easier , 
efficient . But the problem arises when it comes to the labour class or the people who cannot enjoy 
this luxury. They work in these industri es but because of AI now if the people keep losing their jobs 
then this new world with science dreams is not giving benefits to all equally. Also to use AI in 
different sectors there is a need for people to be trained , so who is going to do that as in com panies 
employees are expected to learn these machine learning and languages beforehand . It is predicted 
that in the coming years millions of people will lose jobs so introducing AI machines , robots can be 
efficient or money saving but it will harm workin g class people in many ways.  
 There are some challenges in using this on which people are working to incorporate more 
advanced technology which will come with time, maybe not today but researches are going on how 
to make it more safe and easy to work with . There is a need to solve the unemployment problem and 
training the people in the right way on how to use these AI system rest flaws can be taken care one 
by one as human science proceeds.  
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
282 References  
Abdulov, R. (2020). Artificial intelligence as an important factor of sustainable and crisis -free 
economic growth. Procedia Computer Science , 169, 468 -472.  
Arkorful, V., & Abaidoo, N. (2015). The role of e -learning, advantages and disadvantages of its 
adoption in higher education. International Journal of Instructional Technology and 
Distance Learning , 12(1), 29 -42 
Bouletreau, P., Makaremi, M., Ibrahim, B., Louvrier, A., & Sigaux, N. (2019). Artificial 
intelligence: applications in orthognathic surgery. Journal of stomatology, oral and 
maxillofacial surgery , 120(4), 347 -354. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence. Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53 
Charles, J. (1998). AI and law enforcement. IEEE Intelligent Systems and their Appli cations , 13(1), 
77-80 
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review. Ieee Access , 8, 
75264 -75278  
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufactu ring and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies  
Dhanabalan, T., & Sathish, A. (2018). Transforming Indian industries through artificial intelligence 
and robotics in industry 4.0. International Journal of Mechanical Engineering and 
Technology , 9(10), 835 -845. 
Dick, S. (2019). Artificial intelligence  
Ding, J., & Lu, Y. (2019). Application of Artificial Intelligence In Health care: Advantages and 
Challenges.  
Eli-Chukwu, N. C. (2019). Applications of artificial intelligence in agriculture : A review. 
Engineering, Technology & Applied Science Research , 9(4), 4377 -4383  
Holmes, W., Bialik, M., & Fadel, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education. Boston: Center for 
Curriculum Redesign . 
Ke, R., Zhuang, Y., Pu, Z., & Wang, Y. (2020). A smart , efficient, and reliable parking surveillance 
system with edge artificial intelligence on IoT devices. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent 
Transportation Systems . 
Kesse, M. A. (2021). Artificial intelligence: a modern approach to increasing productivity and 
improving weld quality in TIG welding  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review. Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?.  
Mosteanu, N. R. (2020). Artificial Intelligence And Cyber Security –Face To Face With Cyber 
Attack –A Maltese Case Of Risk Management Approach. Ecoforum Journal , 9(2). 
Mosteanu, N. R. (2020). Artifi cial Intelligence and Cyber Security –A Shield against Cyberattack as 
a Risk Business Management Tool –Case of European Countries. Quality -Access to Success , 
21(175)  
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Nithin, T. P., & Kaur, A. (2020). AI in Healthcare and Medicine. Journal of Dental and Orofacial 
Research , 16(1), 26 -31. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
283 Raaijmakers, S. (2019). Artificial intelligence for law enforcement: challenges and opportunities. 
IEEE Security & Privacy , 17(5), 74-77. 
Roll, I., & Wylie, R. (2016). Evolution and revolution in artificial intelligence in education. 
International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education , 26(2), 582 -599. 
Ruiz -Real, J. L., Uribe -Toril, J., Torres, J. A., & De Pablo, J. (2021). A rtificial intelligence in 
business and economics research: trends and future. Journal of Business Economics and 
Management , 22(1), 98 -117. 
Russell, S., & Norvig, P. (2002). Artificial intelligence: a modern approach.  
Schlögl, S., Postulka, C., Bernsteiner,  R., & Ploder, C. (2019, July). Artificial intelligence tool 
penetration in business: Adoption, challenges and fears. In International Conference on 
Knowledge Management in Organizations  (pp. 259 -270). Springer, Cham.  
unities for sustainable development  Pedro, F., Subosa, M., Rivas, A., & Valverde, P. (2019). 
Artificial intelligence in education: Challenges and opport.  
Wolfrum, R. (1984). The Problems of Limitation and Prohibition of Military Use of Outer Spau  
Zang, Y., Zhang, F., Di, C. A., & Zhu, D. (2015 ). Advances of flexible pressure sensors toward 
artificial intelligence and health care applications. Materials Horizons , 2(2), 140 -156. 
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
118 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE: THE 8th NEW WONDER OF  
THE WORLD  
 
SAYAN SOORAJ  
B.Tech Computer Science  
Email ID: sayan.sooraj2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Introduction  
Artificial Intelligence is  the latest and the fastest growing sector of  the technological world. Though 
AI was always talked about great thinkers and philosophers, it was never applied in real life. Even a 
century back, AI was simply a pipe dream, but now there has been such a massive advancement in 
this area that it is unpre cedented in the history of the technological world. Once considered as an 
impossible task, is now becoming a part -and-parcel of life. It would not be a mistake to call 
Artificial Intelligence the 8th New Wonder of the World. What‘s more interesting is that  the wonders 
of AI are yet to be completely unveiled. In order to understand this complex world of AI, we should 
start from the basics, that is, by comprehending what ‗Artificial Intelligence‘ actually means.  
 
What is AI?  
[1] Artificial intelligence is the  science of making computers comprehend and replicate human 
intelligence in a detailed manner. Complex computer programs are created to perform human tasks, 
giving importance to the smallest of details that may escape the human eye. AI focusses on studying  
different challenging problems around the globe. [2] It learns from data gathered from external 
sources, and utilises them to complete tasks assigned to it in the future. In simple words, AI works 
similar to its biological opponent, human intelligence. Ac cording to the Dartmouth Research Project 
of 1955, a system is said to possess AI, when it performs tasks in a manner that if it were human, 
would have been called intelligent. Simply put, as the name suggests, AI is a machine that works 
intelligently. Tho ugh what can be defined as ‗intelligent,‘ is yet to be decided.  
 
History and Growth of AI  
[3] The idea of Artificial Intelligence started, among philosophers, with the thought of 
understanding the essence of human existence, using an intelligent device. When the first calculators 
were invented by Blaise Pascal and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, it was also a step towards AI; until 
then, calculations were something that only a human mind could perform. Similarly, with the 
successes in mechanical engineering gr ew the possibility of incorporating intelligence into devices. 
This endeavour of centuries bour its fruits through robotics in the recent decades.But it is to be noted 
that AI is not only about robots. Computers and robots are just experimental equipment t o 
experiment the potential of AI.Though ideas about AI have been on the table for over a century, they 
were merely assumptions and theories. These theories could only be experimented after the 
development of computers and programming language. Such experim ents have accelerated in the 
last 50 years.[4] A different approach to these experiments was brought by the English 
Mathematician Alan Turing. Instead of building machines, he turned to computer programs to 
explore artificial intelligence. He was followed on these lines by many researchers towards the late 
1950s. [5] The first leap towards AI was taken in 1956 at the ‗Artificial Intelligence‘ Conference at 
Dartmouth College. In 1965, ELIZA, an artificial intelligence program was invented. This was soon Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
119 overtaken by the first animated robot ‗Shakey‘ in 1966. By 2010, ASIMO took over the world with 
its remarkable performance in imitating the human intelligence. [6] In 2011, IBM Watson, a 
revolutionary AI System, defeated world famous players, Ken Jennings and Brad Rutter. Deep 
Learning became a critical part of AI with the experiments conducted by Yoshua Bengio, Geoffrey 
Hinton, and Yann LeCun. They were honoured with the Turing Award for their exemplary work. 
Another astounding achievement in the field of arti ficial intelligence is the development of the GPA2 
in 2019. It successfully carried out complex language -related problems with no prior training. After 
the revolution in mobile phones and cloud, AI is now considered as the fourth industrial revolution.  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[7] Diagnostic systems, based on AI, are being developed by many researchers recently. For 
example, the Caduceus program (Miller82) suggests the medical tests that have to be performed, by 
interpreting the symptoms inputted and l ater, performs disease diagnosis with the test results.  
[8] One of the most popular application of AI in the medical field can be seen in the manufacture of 
Artificial Neural Network (ANN). With networks resembling the biological neuron, ANNs have 
‗neuron s‘ that use raw data from various inputs to give precise, specific outputs. All credit goes to 
McCulloch and Pitts who used binary threshold functions to achieve this in 1943. Another 
fascinating application of AI is evident in Evolutionary Computation. By  applying the rules and 
patterns in natural selection and survival of the fittest, evolution is utilised in giving solutions to 
real-life challenges. For clinical diagnosis and image analysing in radiology and histopathology, 
ANNs are being increasingly us ed. An algorithm called ProstAsure Index was programmed to 
distinguish between harmless and malignant prostates. It had an accuracy of 90%. Another such 
algorithm is PAPNET which helped cytologists in diagnosis. This was even introduced in a 
commercial sca le. Accurate diagnosis and predictions can be made with the help of ANN systems. 
Even survival rates of patients can be calculated with this technology. Another method employed 
isEvolutionary Computation. This utilises evolutionary data like natural select ion and survival of the 
fittest to solve real world problems. One of the many algorithms that follow this method is the 
‗Genetic Algorithm‘ by John Holland. It collected large amounts of data regarding natural selection 
and evolution. Then, solutions were designed based on these data. Through the method of 
elimination and selection, the best solution for the problems were designed. This data is utilised for 
diagnosing melanoma, lung cancer and brain tumours. Mammographic microcalcification is also 
analysed using genetic algorithm. Fuzzy Expert Systems are used for diagnosis of acute leukaemia, 
lung cancer, breast cancer and pancreatic cancer. Vasodilators for controlling blood pressure are 
installed using Fuzzy controllers. It is also used for administering anaesthesia in operating rooms. 
[9] Due to its higher precision and accuracy rates, AI is used by dermatologists to discover 
malignant skin growths. The only input required for this complex diagnosis is a digital photograph 
of the disordered skin. This app lication of AI is extended to other branches of medical science like 
radiology. In areas where experts of a disease are not present, AI diagnosis systems can be used. For 
example, in many TB -ridden places, AI interprets radiographs and diagnosis is made. T his is 
particularly useful in remote areas. In medicine, there is an added advantage of using AI. There is no 
risk of doctors losing their jobs because of more efficient AI systems. This is because an AI system 
cannot connect with the patients on an emotio nal level. Moreover, in many situations, ethical moves 
have to be taken, instead of following an algorithm.  
 ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
120 AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[10] Deep -learning has been introduced into manufacturing systems for inspecting production, 
detecting errors a nd maintaining the system. AI and tradition manufacturing methods are being 
combined to produce better results. AI is extensively used in manufacture of semiconductor. 
Feasibility of models before complete production can be assessed through complex AI syst ems.  
This saves the manufacturers extra cost, during the experimenting phase. Similarly, smart factories 
are being set -up in a large -scale to create a more efficient workplace. With the collaboration of 
Data -driven manufacturing and Additive manufacturing , Smart Factories are no longer a fantasy. 
Machine learning, feature selection and sensor data are being employed to increase the level of 
detection. [11] In traditional factories, though computers were present for large scale storage of data, 
to make any decision -small or big - human interruption is necessary. With the introduction of 
Artificial Intelligence in factories, the system itself can take many decisions without the supervision 
of a manger. This facilitates higher productivity. Humans can be reserv ed for other major tasks. If 
needed, mangers can monitor the performance of the system in the end of the day or week. 
Automated systems in factories are basically AI systems given high managerial positions. The 
system carries out supervision and work -station control. It facilitates processing of large amounts of 
data in a short time. Some AI systems are specifically designed for making decisions for problem 
solving. These systems can handle larger amounts of data than usual. [12] Advanced robotics is 
applie d in assembling parts of various products. AI robots carry out repetitive tasks accurately, 
without getting tired. This increases efficiency, saving time and money. AI can be used to inspect 
the quality of products manufactured.One of the industries that m ake use of this is the aircraft 
manufacturing industry. The system can  check parts of the aircraft for even the smallest of mistakes 
or errors. Another commercial use of AI can be in supermarkets and other stores where AI systems 
can keep track of the quan tity, quality, sales and demands of products. They can be designed to 
make automatic orders depending on sales and demand of products. Expired products can be 
disposed without human intervention. AI can be installed to keep a check on other systems in the 
factory. For example, in Mueller Industry, a major error in one of there machines with the help of 
their AI system. This saved them from a huge catastrophe. In factories, simulations, using AI, can be 
conducted on the model of products before actually buil ding the product. With this, each model can 
be tested and evolved before creating the final perfect product. This not only saves time, but also 
money. Augmented Reality devices can be given to factory workers to provide them with useful 
information, while performing a task. This can improve the efficiency of the workers and also 
improve the quality of work done.  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
[13] The role of AI in surveillance is increasing exponentially on a global scale. More than 176 
countries are uti lising Artificial Intelligent systems for monitoring purposes.  Nearly 64 countries 
have employed facial recognition and 56 countries are experimenting smart cities. Smart policing is 
also popular now, with nearly 52 countries installing this system. Govern ments of many countries 
are adopting AI systems for remote surveillance, unmonitored by humans. Facial recognition 
cameras and complex analytical software are utilised for this purpose. [14] Providing access to only 
authorized personnel and intrusion detec tion are the main jobs of AI in security systems. Some 
advanced systems can even detect suspicious behaviour, following a set algorithm.Movements can 
be detected by AI -installed surveillance cameras. Advanced AI cameras record only when there is Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
121 motion, in stead of unlimited recording. This saves large amounts of storage space. High level 
systems can particularly distinguish human motion and other motions. Thus, they can be 
programmed to record when there is a human nearby, instead of creating large files of  useless data. 
While face recognition identifies faces, human detection distinguishes particular human actions from 
other movements in the surrounding. [15] Object -detection can be installed in CCTV surveillance to 
detect the presence of weapons. AI system  processes the images and set -off an alarm, if dangerous 
items are recognized. In countries where firearms are legal, the surveillance system can alert the 
CCTV operators to further assess the situation. Convolution Neural Networks (CNN) are powerful 
tools  for weapon detection. Michał Grega and Andrzej Matiola have worked towards designing 
systems for recognising dangerous tools. The algorithm that they created has a sensitivity of 81.8% 
and specificity of 94.93%.  
 
AI in Education  
[16] Artificial Intellige nce was incorporated with education more than two decades back. Some of 
the first such AI Systems are Computer -based training (CBT) and Computer Aided Instruction 
(CAI). Though they do not provide the ideal student -teacher bond, they were quite useful to l earners. 
Recent researches are directed towards Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITSs) to enhance the 
interaction between the system and the learner. ITSs are more flexible in these lines. It forms a 
connection between the course content and the learner‘s kno wledge. Based on study, it has been 
proven that students using ITSs have shown improved performance and are more motivated 
academically than students under traditional educators. ITSs have various methods for teaching. 
Some advance ITSs teach with the help  of simulations of real -life situations. This helps students to 
comprehend information in great depth. Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) is one such ITS 
that creates realistic simulations of medical emergencies and monitor the actions of the student in 
such situations. This equips the learner to take quick action in real life. Students can also experiment 
their hypotheses and assumptions with the help of these stimulations. ITSs typically have five parts: 
the expert model, the domain knowledge, the stude nt model, the communications module and the 
pedagogical module. Among this, pedagogical module is still undergoing large -scale research. [17] 
ITSs have currently taken over the education field under AI. Unlike the older Computer Based 
Learning systems, ITS s have incredibly flexible teaching methods and strong reasoning capacity. 
These systems have expertise in machine learning, natural language, planning, reasoning, 
explanation and knowledge representation. ITSs have also facilitated a platform for testing cognitive 
theories. Researches concerning collaborative learning is taking place in different ways. For 
example, Computer -based collaborative tasks (CBCT) are designed to enable students to work 
together by connecting their respective tutors. Thus, many st udents can interact and collaborate, 
while sharing their files and data in a common area that everyone can access. Sherlock and The 
Envisioning Machine are two most known examples of CBCT. Intelligent Co -operative Systems 
behaves as learning partners to st udents. Co -operative Tools (CT) perform lower -order jobs, during 
the learning process, and thereby, taking some burden off the student‘s shoulder. Computer 
Mediated Communication (CMC) acts as a platform for interaction among several students. 
Groupware sy stems and Email Conferencing come under CMC. Hypermedia systems are another 
means for collaborative learning. One such example is the CSILE environment. This has a database, 
created by students. Students can use this system to make notes, refer others‘ not es and help each 
other in the learning process. It facilitates quick searches and rapid access of accurate data. [18] ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
122 Artificial Intelligence has brought about the ‗Black Box of Learning.‘ It gives the learner a deeper, 
precise knowledge of the subject. On  the basis of this, new software is being developed to aid 
education. Certain features like tracking the learner‘s path to gaining knowledge to understand the 
entire process of learning. Thus, AI in education helps to connect human intelligence to the AI 
world. This collaboration of AI and education can be made more sophisticated. Each learner‘s 
progress, achievements, approach to learning, methods of learning can be intricately studied and 
appropriate steps can be taken easily to improve the learning proce ss. A personalised teacher for 
each student was always the best way for learning. Now, AI has made such teachers a 
reality.Repetitive, time -consuming tasks that were traditionally assigned to teachers can be given to 
AI systems, allowing teachers to engage  in other more important tasks. Research skills of students 
can be enhanced with the help of AI assistants. Other skills that are necessary for surviving in the 
coming technological world can be inculcated in students. With the advanced facilities that onl y AI 
can provide, students can invest more time in experimenting different areas of knowledge and 
finding their  true passion in life.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[19] In traffic management system, AI sensor network can quadruple its efficiency and usefulness. 
Traffic sensors can be further modified to intelligent agents that monitor traffic. Using microscopic 
traffic data collected from vehicles, traffic predictions can be made via AI Systems. Recent 
researches have shown that robotics can be applied in control led environments without much need 
of system intelligence, thus, increasing its feasibility and cost effectiveness. AI systems can make 
the process of decision -making much easier and faster. Extremely complex problems can be solved 
very fast with the help of the complex algorithm of AI. Expenses of companies can be reduced by 
reducing the number of staff for a particular task that can be replaced by a system. Employees can 
be given bigger more meaningful tasks. Both qualitative and quantitative data can be handled 
efficiently by AI, unlike other analytical systems. [20] AI systems have been designed to maintain 
computer security, using knowledge along the same lines as biological immune systems. They detect 
intrusion in the computer and take necessary dynami c actions simultaneously. From Classis AI, we 
have moved on to Distributed AI that can collect and share data with other systems by interacting 
with them. This works similar to human social interactions. Artificial Intelligence has advanced 
enough to make flexible choices, according to the data collected from its environment. Thus, they 
can be employed in cybersecurity systems. Neural networks, evolutionary computation, fuzzy logic, 
and so on, have empowered AI Systems greatly. Genetic algorithms are now th e robust and accurate 
technique for solving complex scenarios and problems.  Mimicking natural selection process, this 
machine learning approach has now gained much importance in the real world. [21] AI has the 
greatest advantage over human intelligence, wh en it comes to taking decisions based on facts and 
not emotion. This means that more logically accurate decisions can be taken faster with maximum 
accuracy rates. AI machines are robust and never get tired. In addition to that, adding new 
information or kn owledge is much easier in AI Systems than in humans. Spreading knowledge, 
among systems, can also be carried out by a simple method of copy and paste, saving time on human 
training. [22] It can be said that AI has more successes in carrying out intellectua l task in a short 
time than other systems. Computer Aided Instruction (CAI) studies human behaviour and executes 
tasks, utilising that knowledge in a better and faster manner. [23] Construction Ontology -based NPD 
Process Recommendation Smart System (ONPS) help in detecting cancer in an earlier stage than 
any other systems yet manufactured. It has the best knowledge and reasoning ability in this field. 
Additionally, it is easy to maintain. [24] Since the expenses of the AI system is mainly restricted to Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
123 initial installation and maintenance, in the long run, it is more profitable and cost -effective than 
paying employees on a monthly basis. Installation of AI is relatively simple. Areas where its 
actually dangerous for humans to work, like in mines and petroleu m extractors, AI machines can be 
used. Moreover, work accidents can be prevented using AI. Humans are prone to make mistakes, 
irrespective of the number of years of experience is there. But AI is free of errors, as long as it is 
programmed correctly in the  beginning of the task. Companies now -a-days make use of digital 
assistants as part of their customer -service team. Interactions these days with chatbots are so similar 
to human interactions that it is almost impossible to distinguish between a chatbot and  an employee. 
IT companies have developed assistant applications for their clients which are now being utilised on 
a global scale. Undoubtedly, Artificial Intelligence makes our lives easier and it will continue to do 
so in the coming years.  
 
Challenges o r Dis -advantages of AI  
It goes without saying that AI has its evils too.[24] AI Machines are not only expensive to build, 
their maintenance and repair uses much more money than what it actually brings into the company. 
There is a huge risk of creating a la zy generation because of the extensive use of AI. Machines are 
incapable of creating bonds like humans that boost team performance. They are also not as flexible 
as humans, with respect to work -related problems. Any unexpected scenario outside their 
progra mming cannot be dealt by these AI systems. Many industries are trying to replace the less -
qualified workers with AI robots. This can affect utilization standards.[25] Improper use and 
mishandling of AI can lead to huge disasters. So, in the wrong hands, AI  is a dangerous weapon. 
Even a minute error in the program can bring about completely opposite results. Moreover, AI 
Systems have taken over a large number of jobs that were, until recently, done by humans, leading 
to unemployment. Many AI projects and sys tems are not cost and time effective yet. It takes more 
time and money than any other systems or methods. [26] It goes without saying that AI has 0% 
creativity. Most systems are incapable of explain their decision to a particular problem. In the 
present sy stems, if the problem is beyond its scope, it will never know the solution. Since all the 
solutions of AI systems are blindly believed, even if there is an error or malfunction, it will not be 
discovered until its very late. Situations were common sense an d emotion has to be applied will 
leave AI systems handicapped. [27] In many scenarios, the analyst or programmer will have to carry 
out a tedious process of trial -and-error before the data can be fed into the system. For example, in 
neural networks, it is only after the analyst makes important decisions regarding the nature of the 
search, that the system can interpret the situation. This applies for other branches of AI like genetic 
algorithm. [28] Another obvious shortcoming of AI is that it functions with  ‗deep -learning,‘ unlike 
humans who use ‗one -shot learning.‘ One -shot learning is much more flexible and human 
intelligence is capable of that because of the meticulous process of natural selection. It has taken 
generations for humans to develop it through  evolution. Such a huge feat has not been achieved by 
Artificial Intelligence till date. Unlike a human brain, AI cannot adapt to a change in environment 
without a major change in its algorithm. [29] AI also can further decrease the credibility of the 
information found on the internet. This is because AI can pretend to be a human and spread fake 
information online. Spamming and phishing attacks can also be carried out by AI which will go 
undetected. Social networking platforms can become preys to automated spread of inaccurate data. 
This will make it impossible for the public to believe any content found on the internet. Many 
activists around the globe are also raising the ethical issues concerned with widespread use of AI. 
How far the we can trust Artificia lly Intelligent machines is still a debatable topic.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
124 Conclusion  
Artificial Intelligence has achieved great feats in the past few decades. It is, truly, the next Industrial 
Revolution. There is no sector of the industrial world that AI does not touch. This  also poses a threat 
to humanity.It is predicted that soon unemployment would rise exponentially. Many jobs will be 
wiped out completely. Despite being a recent invention, AI has already overtakenhuman 
intelligence. Once it grasps its power over common sen se, logic, and ethics, AI would rule the 
world. Professionals claim that new jobs will be created in this process. From one side, that is also 
true. No system can replace a man. Human intelligence may not be as fast as AI in calculations, but 
we have the b est survival instincts in this world. I believe that nothing can ever defeat human 
instincts and intuition. According to me, AI will be a useful tool for us to enhance our performance. 
Though it is a creation of humans, who have finite lifespans, AI has in finite capabilities that we can 
keep on unfolding for generations to come. AI will undoubtedly live for an eternity.  
 
References  
Alajrami, E., Tabash, H., Singer, Y., & El Astal, M. T. (2019, October). On using AI -based human 
identification in improving s urveillance system efficiency. In 2019 International Conference 
on Promising Electronic Technologies (ICPET) (pp. 91 -95). IEEE.  
Andriessen, J., & Sandberg, J. (1999). Where is education heading and how about AI.  International 
Journal of Artificial Intellig ence in Education,  10(2), 130 -150. 
Beck, J., Stern, M., & Haugsjaa, E. (1996). Applications of AI in Education.  XRDS: Crossroads, 
The ACM Magazine for Students,  3(1), 11 -15. 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Ar tificial 
Intelligence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230. 
Blagoj DELIPETREV, Chrisa TSINARAKIi, Uroš KOSTIĆ. ―Historical Evolution of Artificial 
Intelligence‖, EUR 30221 EN, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembo urg, 
2020, ISBN 978 -92-76-18940 -4, doi:10.2760/801580, JRC120469  
Blagoj DELIPETREV, Chrisa TSINARAKIi, Uroš KOSTIĆ. ―Historical Evolution of Artificial 
Intelligence‖, EUR 30221 EN, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, 
2020, ISBN 978 -92-76-18940 -4, doi:10.2760/801580, JRC120469  
Buch, V. H., Ahmed, I., & Maruthappu, M. (2018). Artificial intelligence in medicine: current trends 
and future possibilities. British Journal of General Practice, 68(668), 143 -144. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) b rief history of artificial intelligence. Ai Magazine, 26(4), 53 -53. 
Bullers, W. I., Nof, S. Y., & Whinston, A. B. (1980). Artificial intelligence in manufacturing 
planning and control. AIIE transactions, 12(4), 351 -363. 
Charniak, E. (1985). Introduction to  artificial intelligence. Pearson Education India.  
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues, 6(3), 360 -375. 
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial 
intellig ence.  Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues,  6(3), 360 -
375. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
125 Crandall, D. J. (2019). Artificial intelligence and manufacturing. Smart Factories: Issues of 
Information Governance, 10 -16. 
Dilek, S., Çakır, H., & Aydın, M. (201 5). Applications of artificial intelligence techniques to 
combating cybercrimes: A review. arXiv preprint arXiv:1502.03552.  
Feldstein, S. (2019). The global expansion of AI surveillance (Vol. 17). Washington, DC: Carnegie 
Endowment for International Peace.  
Hsu, Y., & Chaing, Y. H. (2021, July). The Strategic Advantages of Artificial Intelligence System 
for Product Design Teams with Diverse Cross -Domain Knowledge. In  International 
Conference on Human -Computer Interaction  (pp. 408 -419). Springer, Cham.  
Kakadi ya, R., Lemos, R., Mangalan, S., Pillai, M., & Nikam, S. (2019, June). Ai based automatic 
robbery/theft detection using smart surveillance in banks. In 2019 3rd International 
conference on Electronics, Communication and Aerospace Technology (ICECA) (pp. 20 1-
204). IEEE.  
Kaplan, A., & Haenlein, M. (2019). Siri, Siri, in my hand: Who‘s the fairest in the land? On the 
interpretations, illustrations, and implications of artificial intelligence.  Business 
Horizons,  62(1), 15 -25. 
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D.  (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review. International Journal of Library & 
Information Science (IJLIS), 9(1), 3.  
Luckin, R., Holmes, W., Griffiths, M., & Forcier, L. B. (2016). Intelligenc e unleashed: An argument 
for AI in education.  
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?  
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?  
Mijwel, M. M. (2015). History of Artificial Intelligence Yapay Zekânın T arihi. Comput. Sci, 3 -4.  
Mog ali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries. In  Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of D efence Delhi.  
Ramesh, A. N., Kambhampati, C., Monson, J. R., & Drew, P. J. (2004). Artificial intelligence in 
medicine. Annals of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, 86(5), 334.  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associat ed technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016],  5(6).  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016],  5(6).  
Teng, X. (2019, April). Discussion about artificial intelligence‘s advantages and disadvanta ges 
compete with natural intelligence. In  Journal of Physics: Conference Series  (Vol. 1187, No. 
3, p. 032083). IOP Publishing.  
 
 
 
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
284 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
VINAY KUMAR VERMA  
B.Tech Computer Science  
Email ID: Vinaykumar.verma2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence ?  
 Artificial intelligence is the study of using computers and machines to study human 
intellect. Artificial intelligence also includes engineering and sciences involved in making 
intelligent machines, or clever computers. Ho wever, AI doesn‘t have to pull itself back or to 
be limited to biologically observable ways.  
 The goal of artificial intelligence in definite in understanding intelligence and building 
intelligent systems.  
 It is a broad field of computer and sciences that  focus on development of intelligent 
computers capable of doing tasks.  
 It can also be defined as, capability of a machine to intimate human‘s behaviour.  
 
What is History of Artificial Intelligence?   
 The history of artificial intelligence is a story of fantasy, demonstrations and promises.  
 Over the past half century, the AI community has succeeded in building experimental 
machines that test hypotheses about the mechanisms of intelligent thinking and behavior.  
 Although reaching a fully developed Artificia l Intelligence still remains in the future, we 
must keep the dialogue ongoing about the implications of completing the promise.  
 Classical thinkers attempted to define human thinking as the mechanical language of 
symbols, laying the base for today‘s AI.  
 The field of Artificial Intelligence research was founded at a workshop held on the campus 
of Dartmouth College. Those who attended would become the first AI researchers for 
decades.  
 
Growth of Artificial Intelligence  
 The desire of creating non -biological intellect has existed for centuries, even before AI was 
established.  
 The role of AI powered technologies in next generation healthcare technology, 
manufacturing and production, security and surveillance and many more is being recognized 
by many sectors.  
 AI is thought to have ability to enhance every phase of services and sectors, even these 
systems are expected to save a lot of capital in upcoming years.  
 Artificial intelligence has the potential to boost the capacity  of capital and labour to drive 
economic growth.  
 Artificial Intelligence can turn today‘s fantastic movies into realistic scenarios, it may even 
possible in future for robots to do police tasks.  
 Importance of AI for economic growth and societal developme nt, authorities must not only 
avoid stifling AI innovation, but also actively assist its continued development and 
applications.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
285 Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare Appliances  
 Artificial intelligence is changing the landscape of healthcare and biomedica l research.  
 There are many ways and techniques in which AI is playing an important role in healthcare 
appliances:  
ARAVIND EYECARE SYSTEM IN INDIA (for diabetic patients)  
 Diabetic Retinopathy (DR)  
 Fundus Photography  
 An AI system trained on thousands of images can identify referable DR with physician -level 
sensitivity and specificity, according to a group of researchers from Google Inc. and other 
institutions.  
 This technology is now combing and upgrading thus AI technology in clinical practices in 
numero us Eye Hospitals in India.  
 For detecting moderate -to-serve -DR a technology method was published by university of 
IOWA which was further approved by US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).  
 AI has lately re -emerged into the scientific and public consciousness, as new advances and 
technologies are revealed by modern companies and scientists at dizzying pace.  
 As a result, AI triumphs from the 1970s through the 1990s that were formerly lauded a s 
medical breakthroughs, such as the automated interpretation of electrocardiograms 
(ECGs)11, are now seen as useful but not true AI.  
 Unlike the earlier AI systems, which relied totally on limitations of medical knowledge by 
experts and on making of robus t decision rules. Recent AI research has expanded machines 
and ways of learning which can account for complex interaction, to recognize pattern and 
loop from the data.  
 In diagnosis stage, AI literature analysis has a vast proportion starting from diagnosi ng 
image, genetic testing to electrodiagnosis. For example, Jha and Topol urged radiologists to 
acquire AI technologies during analysing diagnosing images that accommodated a lot of 
data information.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Manufacturing and Production  
 Artificial Intelligence have shown their aptitude in fields such as customized product 
manufacturing, customized product design, customer management, manufacturing 
management, manufacturing maintenance, logistics, after sales service and market analysis.  
 Artificial Intelligence (AI) encompasses theories, technologies, methodologies and 
applications aimed at enhancing human intelligence.  
 Manufacturing not only includes AI, but it also includes techniques such as perception, 
machine learning, deep learning , reinforcement learning, decision making. Apart from this, 
it uses AI -enables applications like computer vision, natural language processing, intelligent 
robots and system recommendations.  
 Incorporation of AI and industrialization of IoT brings benefits to smart and easy 
manufacturing. AI -developed tools upgraded manufacturing efficiency.  
 Although, AI systems have their own drawbacks. For example, high -performance 
computing servers equipped with high end GPUs are mostly required to fasten the training 
process of massive data, while existing manufacturing facilities aren‘t fulfilled to the 
stringent requirement on computing capability.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
286  Artificial intelligence (AI) is the riding pressure at the back of this transformation, and it's 
far vital that we put tog ether for an AI -ruled future. Robots and synthetic intelligence (AI) 
could be appreciably extra disruptive than whatever we have got visible before. Intelligent 
augmentation could be the cornerstone of the simplest AI systems.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Security and Surveillance  
 There is a slew of direct AI applications that are crucial to national security. Some major 
authorities have indicated that, in recent years the cyber domain represents a key potential 
use sector for AI.  
 In October 2016, director Michael Rogers revealed that the agency sees AI as 
―FOUNDATIONAL TO THE FUTURE OF CYBERSECURITY‖  
 The influence of AI in the changing threat landscape has major consequences for 
information security, mirroring the broader impact o f AI in the information age through bots 
and associated technologies.  
 Progress in AI technology will have an impact on robotics and autonomous capabilities, 
which could have a significant impact on future conflict and the military security balance.  
 AI is  now in a position to ensure the monitoring of video -data flows and security -based 
systems and can warm up security services of suspicious and anonymous activity.  
 Every work and task done on the internet leaves trade, experts can trace the e -footprints an d 
algorithms in counter to catch the victim.  
 The impact of AI on safety might be decided through the technique and the way it's far 
implemented. The real utility of the principle to real -global issues might be crucial. 
Increasing the talents and impact of  clever structures and robots will boom the significance 
of innovative choices taken through executives withinside the zone approximately places 
and time of use  
 AI can help agencies avoid cyber -crime that may cost them money and destroy their brand. 
It ma y be trained to recognize key phrases or topics linked with harmful content, so averting 
a cyber assault.  
 The management of data volumes will be an essential task of future disease surveillance 
architectures. Many ability reassessments of fitness records contain vast volumes of data, 
and we wish to find emerging disease patterns in these datasets in real time.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Education  
 Artificial intelligence plays an important role in education and it‘d be too naive to think that 
there‘s no i mpact of it in education  
 Artificial Intelligence in education includes everything from AI -Driven, step -by-step 
personalized instructional and dialogue systems, through AI -supported exploratory learning, 
the analysis of student writing, intelligent agents in game based environments and student -
support chatbots to AI -facilitated tutor matching.  
 Also, AIED(International Artificial Intelligence in education) can also put some shine on 
learning and educational practices.  
 The field of AIED is derivative as well  as innovative. On one hand, it brings and collects 
theories and methodologies from related fields such as AI, cognitive science and education. 
Whereas on other hand, it generates its own larges research issues.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
287  The primary themes in AI research are adapti ve learning, personalization and learning 
styles, expert systems and intelligent tutoring systems, and AI as a future component of 
educational processes, according to a search of "AI and Education" linked terms.  
 The use of AI in education has resulted in significant progress in theory and practice in the 
new millennium. There are various paths and scenarios for incorporating AI into educational 
processes, with online learning and distance education receiving signi ficant attention.  
 In education, artificial intelligence entails developing theories and models in relation to the 
production of artefacts in a given experimental sector.  
 The use of computers to simulate parts of educational circumstances that itself entai l the use 
of computers as educational artefacts, some of which may incorporate computational 
models, is an important part of artificial intelligence in education research.  
 
Advantages of Artificial Intelligence  
 Artificial Intelligence applications are utilized to simulate human intelligence for either 
solving a problem or making a decision. AI provide advantages of permanency, cost -
effectiveness and reliability while also addressing uncertainty and speed in either solving a 
problem or reaching a decisio n. 
 AI applications can give permanency in an organization when human intelligence is 
attached to a single person or a group of people, preventing information from being lost 
when the individual or group members leave or are no longer available to the busin ess. 
 Artificial intelligence's decisions are based on facts rather than emotions, which is one of its 
key advantages. Despite our best attempts, human decisions are always influenced by our 
emotions in a bad way.  
 It is a one -time investment, low maintenanc e or labor cost and it can be deployed very 
easily.  
 Giving it a proper model it can outcompetes natural intelligence. Also it finishes tasks faster 
than humans, it is less errors and more efficient.  
 Artificial Intelligence applications can provide perman ency that prevents the knowledge 
from being lost when the individual or the group members retire or are no longer available 
to the organization.  
 The life of the knowledge encapsulated in an AI framework could be as long as the 
relevance of the problems and  decision scenarios remain unchanged. AI also enables the 
development of a learning capability which can be utilized to further prolong the life and 
relevance of the application.  
 Learning from real -world success and failure is an enabling feature of AI too ls known as 
―reinforcement learning‖ and is advantageous in that it increases the reliability of the tools 
with their increased use in applications  
 
Challenges or Dis -Advantages of Artificial Intelligence  
 The difficulty with software development for AI dep loyment is that software development is 
sluggish and costly. There are a limited number of skilled programmers accessible to create 
artificial intelligence software.  
 AI can be sometimes misused in leading to mass scale of destruction.  
 Human‘s jobs are affe cted and so unemployment problem is increasing.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
288  Machines can easily lead to destruction if the implementation of machine put in the wrong 
hands the results are hazardous for human beings . 
 Making humans lazy with its application automation bulk of work.  
 Human interference is getting less as AI replaces the bulk of repetitive chores and other 
duties with robots, which may present a serious problem within the utilization requirements. 
Every company is aiming to replace the least skilled employees with AI ro bots that can 
perform similar tasks more efficiently.  
 The cultivation and practice of artificial intelligence and thinking ability are inseparable.  
 AIs aren't built to perform creative activities. As a result, it should be obvious that AIs lack 
creativity and originality. They will never be able to equal the human brain, even if they can 
assist you in designing and building something unique.  
 The results of current artificial intelligence technologies remain limited to specific 
intellectual areas, such as im age recognition, speech recognition, and dialogue response.  
 
Conclusion  
 Artificial Intelligence is a broad branch of computer science that is focused on a machine‘s 
capability to produce rational behavior from external inputs. The goal of AI is to create 
systems simple that can perform tasks that would otherwise require human intelligence.  
 Although AI can be a threat, either now or in the future. It is clear that it has substantial and 
critical benefits for humans. Using the systems that mimic human is next  borderline in 
solving problems.  
 AI is the center of a new enterprise to build computational models of intelligence. The main 
motive is that intelligence can be represented in terms of structures and symbols which can 
be programmed in a computer system.  
 The combination of AI and human intelligence is definitely going to lead the development 
of computational and cybersecurity innovations which is for sure going to be a great 
initiative towards digital nation.  
 
References  
Aghion, P., Jones, B. F., & Jones, C.  I. (2019). 9. Artificial Intelligence and Economic Growth (pp. 
237-290). University of Chicago Press.  
Agrawal, A., McHale, J., & Oettl, A. (2019). 5. Finding Needles in Haystacks: Artificial Intelligence 
and Recombinant Growth (pp. 149 -174). University o f Chicago Press.  
Atkinson, R. D. (2016). 'It's Going to Kill Us!'And Other Myths About the Future of Artificial 
Intelligence. Information Technology & Innovation Foundation.  
Baker, M. J. (2000). The roles of models in Artificial Intelligence and Education research: a 
prospective view. Journal of Artificial Intelligence and Education, 11, 122 -143. 
Bhbosale, S., V. Pujari, and Z. Multani. "Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial Intelligence." 
Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Jour nal (2020): 227 -230 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence. Ai Magazine, 26(4), 53 -53.  
Buchmeister, B., Palcic, I., & Ojstersek, R. (2019). Artificial Intelligence in Manufacturing 
Companies and Broader: An Overview. DAA AM International Scientific Book.  
Chen, H., & Wang, F. Y. (2005). Guest editors' introduction: Artificial intelligence for homeland 
security. IEEE intelligent systems, 20(5), 12 -16.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
289 Chin -Yee, Benjamin, and Ross Upshur. "Three problems with big data and a rtificial intelligence in 
medicine." Perspectives in biology and medicine 62.2 (2019): 237 -256. 
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation iss ues, 6(3), 360 -375. 
Crandall, D. J. (2019). Artificial intelligence and manufacturing. Smart Factories: Issues of 
Information Governance, 10 -16.  
Ertel, W. (2018). Introduction to artificial intelligence . Springer.  
Goksel, N., & Bozkurt, A. (2019). Artifi cial intelligence in education: Current insights and future 
perspectives. In Handbook of Research on Learning in the Age of Transhumanism (pp. 224 -
236). IGI Global.  
Guo, Meng. "Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial Intelligence In Business English 
Teaching  
Holmes, W., Bialik, M., & Fadel, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education. Boston: Center for 
Curriculum Redesign.  
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., & Scharre, P. (2018). Artificial 
intelligence and internat ional security. Center for a New American Security.  
Jiang, F., Jiang, Y., Zhi, H., Dong, Y., Li, H., Ma, S., ... & Wang, Y. (2017). Artificial intelligence 
in healthcare: past, present and future. Stroke and vascular neurology, 2(4).  
Khanzode, K.C.A. and  Sarode, R.D., 2020. Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence 
and Machine Learning: A Literature Review. International Journal of Library & Information 
Science (IJLIS), 9(1), p.3.  
Lu, H., Li, Y., Chen, M., Kim, H., & Serikawa, S. (2018). Bra in intelligence: go beyond artificial 
intelligence. Mobile Networks and Applications, 23(2), 368 -375. 
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?  
Neill, D. B. (2012). New directions in artificial intelligence for public health surveillance. IEEE  
Intelligent Systems, 27(1), 56 -59.  
Nilsson, N. J. (2009). The quest for artificial intelligence. Cambridge University Press.  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016], 5(6).  
Teng, X., 2019, April. Discussion about artificial intelligence‘s advantages and disadvantages 
compete with natural intelligence. In Journal of Physics: Conference Series (Vol. 1187, No. 
3, p. 032083). IOP Publishing  
Yao, X., Zhou, J., Zhang, J., & Boër, C. R. (2017 , September). From intelligent manufacturing to 
smart manufacturing for industry 4.0 driven by next generation artificial intelligence and 
further on. In 2017 5th international conference on enterprise systems (ES) (pp. 311 -318). 
IEEE.  
Yu, K. H., Beam, A.  L., & Kohane, I. S. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare. Nature 
biomedical engineering, 2(10), 719 -731.  
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
29 GAMIFICATION OF EDUCATION  
 
KARTHIK RAJESH  
 
MALAVIKA MENON  
  
GOUTHAM KRISHNA  
Email ID: karthik06082000@gmail.com  
 
Abstract  
With the gaming industry rapidly climbing to its epitome  by rapidly integrating new and relevant technologies, 
the attention of most of the youths have been tapped into for the past half of a century. These programs have 
been able to do easily what the teachers struggle through during their class with the same set of student. 
Through gamification we intend to use the applications of game mechanics to bridge the attention gap 
between the students and to use the skillsets of teachers. Some benefits includes real -time score updates, 
leaderboards, etc. which keep up  healthy competitions. Other major benefits include early detection of 
diseases which cause learning disability and adaptability to suit their learning needs.  
Keywords : gamification, education, gamification in education, integration of technology, learning  
 
Introduction  
In today‘s fast paced world, the uses of books are growing obsolete due to the takeover of 
technology. This trend has rendered the conventional ways of learning ineffective to a large extent. 
The current systems of education that we follow across the world have not been able to keep up with 
the pace of our constantly evolving lifestyle which is heavily influenced by technology. In our 
present system of education everyone is taught in the same manner and assessed by the same 
standards. We oft en ignore the fact that each student is unique and learns differently. Through 
gamification we can analyze what form of teaching would be effective for each student and provide 
an interface between the teacher and the student that is convenient for both. A round 0.7% of the 
worlds population suffer from autism, 20% from some extent of dyslexia and 0.1% from downs 
syndrome. These are some of the most common learning disabilities that occur in children. 
Gamification of education can help to diagnose such disea ses and adapt itself to suit the students 
learning need.  
 
Literary Survey  
[1] Gamification is applying game components outside gaming settings, Game playing is related 
with preliminary, mistake, disappointment and possible accomplishment through training, 
knowledge, reflection and learning. By applying gamification to the classroom, students could be 
propelled to learn in new ways or appreciate generally monotonous assignments. A definitive 
objective when gamifying is to increment characteristic inspiration . The three sorts of natural 
inspiration incorporate inherent inspiration to know, characteristic inspiration towards achievement, 
and inborn inspiration to encounter simulation. To make a gamification framework that builds 
understudy inspiration, it is im portant to center on central components that make videogames 
speaking to their players.[2]At the point when Students are required to think fundamentally to solve 
problems, game like simulations can be utilized in any train to fortify this present real worl d uses of ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
30 ideas. the utilization of gamification must be finished with a profound comprehension of gaming 
mechanics and an unmistakable handle of gamer inspiration. Four fundamental classes of gamers:  
 Socializers  are regularly more intrigued by having rel ations with alternate players than playing 
the diversion itself. They are frequently associated with the network part of the amusement.  
 Achievers  are focused and appreciate beating troublesome difficulties whether they are set by 
the diversion or without  anyone else's input.  
 Executioners  get a kick out of the chance to force them over different players in the degree 
given by the virtual world.  
 Pioneers  get a kick out of the chance to investigate the world – its geology as well as the better 
subtle ele ments of the diversion mechanics. These players may wind up knowing how the gaming 
functions and carry on superior to the game developers themselves.  
 [3]The immediate nature of student/player input or feedback is a standout amongst the most 
convincing co ntentions for the gamification of education. In a game setting feedback is quite often 
quick, directed and intended to empower to player to adjust their approach for better, more alluring 
outcomes. Generally a videogame is full of feeling on the off chance  that it can keep up an 
emotional criticism circle; if the player turns out to be deliberately mindful of how that input circle 
is controlled by their physiology thus ready to intentionally control their responses, the full of 
feeling nature of the critici sm circle is lost and it turns into a type of biofeedback. As instructors 
keep on exploring better and more powerful approaches to connect with a more extensive gathering 
of people of students in a more extensive setting of situations, the appropriation of  gamification 
techniques will keep on offering snappier and more compelling catalyzing apparatuses than 
conventional sage in front of an audience guideline.[4]The intensity of computer games lives not 
simply in their present instantiations, but rather in t he guarantees the advances by which they are 
made to hold for the future.  
 Game makers can influence universes where individuals to can have important new encounters, 
encounters that their places in life could never enable them to have. These encounters ca n possibly 
make individuals more quick witted and more astute.  
 Different styles of learning work better for various individuals. Individuals can't be operators of 
their own learning in the event that they can't settle on choices about how their learning will 
function. In the meantime, they ought to have the capacity to attempt new styles. Good games 
accomplish this objective in one  of two different ways. In a some games, players can redo the game 
play to accommodate their learning and playing styles. In o thers, the game is intended to permit 
distinctive styles of learning and playing to work. Intellectual research recommends that for people 
perception and action are profoundly interconnected. [5]Great amusements offer the player 
multifaceted, powerful, and  simple control of the world's articles, objects which progress toward 
becoming apparatuses for completing the player's objectives. Good games alter difficulties and give 
feedback so that distinctive players feel the amusement is testing yet possible and t hat their exertion 
is satisfying. Good games make and bolster the cycle of aptitude, with cycles of broadened rehearse, 
trial of dominance of that training, at that point another test, and afterward new expanded practice. 
People don't care for honing abili ties outside of any relevant connection to the issue at hand again 
and again, since they find such expertise hone futile in good games, players learn and hone ability 
bundles as an integral part of achieving things they need and need to accomplish. People learn 
aptitudes, methodologies, and thoughts best when they perceive how they fit into a general bigger 
framework to which they give meaning. Great recreations enable players to see and see how every 
one of the components in the game fit into the general a rrangement of the game and its 
type.[6]Needed to gain ground in the field of geological information among people. Created an Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
31 amusement called ―MAPPIT‖. Believes recreations will have no place in instruction foundations if 
the learning had been more fruitfu l. In this advanced period of innovation youngsters grows up by 
utilizing web and computers. All the things that they require are at their fingertip. One of the 
fundamental targets is to make the kids to have a decent association with others and additional ly to 
give them the knowledge in an entertaining way. The amusement incorporates games, movies, music 
and so forth. Utilizing them in learning will assist the youngsters with learning everything so 
effectively and these ought to likewise incorporate the es sential factors that fabricate the base. 
Current amusements are utilizing man -made brainpower frameworks which help the person who is 
utilizing it to settle on choices and to confront the results. Used three diversions alongside education 
to figure out the  impact of recreations in education. Discovered that the youngsters were energetic 
and didn‘t discover any exercise as a dreadful one.[7]Gamificationis based on the principle that 
people respond to computer as they were persons. Gamification, at its core, means to apply game 
mechanics to mundane activities to increase engagement and knowledge retentivity. Gaification, 
being a proven technology, is already in use by any websites to increase loyalty and effective market 
engagement. The strategy of gamificatio n is to combine both intrinsic and extrinsic motivators to 
help engage the student for longer periods of time and to make mundane topics more 
interesting.[8]Case study conducted on the basis of gamification. Study was conducted regarding a 
game called SuLi  (Sustainable Living). The main aim of this study was to create awareness about 
sustainable living and to try and integrate the concept of gamification into secondary education.  
The students received it well and were very well responsive to the concepts w hich the developers 
were trying to get through to them. This case study proved the effectiveness of gamification though 
with a few disadvantages which can be ironed out in the following years to come. This proves the 
effectiveness of gamification and the f act that it could be a integral part of the learning process in the 
years to come.  The growing interest in gamification due to its application in other fields has led to 
an increased in the field of education to engage students in the learning process and to increases 
knowledge retention. This paper consists of mapping many papers to form a literary survey on the 
topic of gamification on education. Going through them we get an idea on how effective 
gamification can be as it is supported with statistical dat a as well .[9]Video games are just 
programmes which engage users to problem solve under already determined set of rules. This loop 
of continuous feedback and interaction has a great potential to be used in education. Such a system 
can be designed keeping th e needs of the students in mind thus helping the student to complete 
activities which might be considered repetitive or mundane. Gamified systems can keep the student 
engaged for longer periods of time compared to book which interests only a select few of the student 
population. Due to the feedback loop, gamified systems can detect behavioural changes which can 
help in many ways. One of them being alerting the teachers if the student is depressed. Another use 
being able to detect the early symptoms of learn ing impairing disease.[10]Despite the popular belief 
that video games can be mind numbing and a habit of the lazy it is found out that video games 
increases various cognitive abilities or skills. Game developers have become proficient in engaging 
people of  all ages successfully into the world of virtual world of video games. Gaming surroundings 
actually inculcate regular expressions of optimism and inspiration. This helps in the sphere of 
education where all these values are essential.  
 
Findings  
Gamificatio n, being a very practical and proven method is slowly taking effect. Our findings 
through this study are that gamification is the best available option for the rampant problem of 
attention deficiency which is rampant in our generation. We have come to know  that gamification 
stimulates multiple regions of the brain helping to increase focus and engagement in the subject. Is 
can be easily integrated to education without making heavy changes in the infrastructure. As most ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
32 educational institutes are already equ ipped with the hardware all that is required is to create the 
softwares for the implementation of gamification. Moreover the expertise of the teachers can also be 
utilised for the development and management of a gamified system of education. The greatest 
advantage being that gamification of education grants people with learning disabilities access to 
education in an easy manner which was not so upto these years. It an also help diagnose such 
diseases in an early stage.  
 
Conclusion  
Education is the most basic right and requirement. It lays the foundation for our future and hence it 
is important to better our system of education and make it apt for the fast paced and tech savvy 
lifestyle. Gamification of education is not only the need for the present but a lso helps to increase 
student participation, interaction and motivation thereby making tedious tasks more enjoyable and 
involving. After thorough examination of research papers on our topic, we have concluded that 
gamification is a very novel and unique ap proach to the most rampant problems faced by the student 
of our generation. We hope that through this paper the doubts on the minds of sceptics will be erased 
on this topic so that this form of technology can be implemented as soon as possible so that it c an 
impact a lot of students and improve the overall quality of education which in turn improves the 
quality of humanity.  
 
References  
Arnold B. J. (2014). Gamification in education. Proceedings of the American Society of Business 
and Behavioral Sciences,21 (1), 32 -39. 
de Sousa Borges, S., Durelli, V. H., Reis, H. M., &Isotani, S. (2014, March). A systematic mapping 
on gamification applied to education. In Proceedings of the 29th Annual ACM Symposium 
on Applied Computing (pp. 216 -222). ACM.  
Gee, J. P. (2005).  Learning by Design: Good video games as learning machines. E-Learning and 
Digital Media, 2 (1), 5 -16. 
Granic, Isabela, Adam Lobel, and Rutger CME Engels. ―The benefits of playing video games.‖ 
American psychologist 69.1 (2014): 66.  
Muntean, C. I. (2011, Oc tober). Raising engagement in e -learning through gamification. In Proc. 6th 
International Conference on Virtual Learning ICVL (Vol. 1). sn.  
Obrazovanju , I. U. O. I. Gamification In Education . 
Pohl, M., Rester, M., &Judmaier, P. (2009, July). Interactive ga me based learning: advantages and 
disadvantages. In International Conference on Universal Access in Human -Computer 
Interaction (pp. 92 -101). Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg.  
Sandusky, S. (2015). Gamification in education.  
Tavakkoli, A., Loffredo, D., & Ward S r, M. (2014). Lessons from Game Studies to Enhance 
Gamification in Education. In proceedings of the 18th World Multi -conference on 
Systemics, Cybernetics, and Informatics, Orlando, FL.  
Van de Pavoordt, Pim. ―Gamification of education‖.  
 
 
 
 ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
290 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
AKSHAT SHRIVASTAVA  
21BCM0068  
Email ID: Akshat.shrivastava2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence ?  
It is the technology and engineering of creating clever machines, especially clever pc programs. It is 
associated with the same venture of the use of computer systems to apprehend human intelligence, 
however, AI does now no longer ought to c onfine itself to techniques that can be biologically 
observable.[1]  
 ARTIFICIAL intelligence (AI) is outlined as intelligence exhibited by a man -made entity to 
unravel complicated issues and such a system is usually assumed to be a laptop or machine. AI is  an 
integration of computer science and physiology Intelligence in easy language is that the procedure is 
a part of the power to attain goals within the world. Intelligence is the ability to assume to imagine 
making memorizing and understanding, recognizin g patterns, creating selections adapting to vary, 
and learning from experience. AI is involved with making computers behave like humans in a lot of 
human -like fashion and in a lot of less time than an individual takes. thus it's referred to as Artificial 
Intelligence.[2]  
 
History of AI  
Two of the participants, Herbert Simon and Allen Newell, proposed more specifically that human 
minds and modern digital computers are ―like -kind‖, that is, systems for processing symbolic 
information; both take symbolic info rmation as input, manipulate it according to a formal set of 
rules, and in doing so can solve problems, make judgments and make decisions (CrowtherHeyck, 
2008; Heyck, 2005; Newell and Simon, 1972). workshop, it became the dominant approach, and as a 
result , artificial intelligence researchers decided to identify the formal processes that made up 
intelligent human behavior in medical diagnosis, chess, math, language processing, etc., in the hope 
of reproducing this behavior by automated means.[3]  
 In finding out computer science, it's extraordinarily helpful to know the background of 
philosophy, linguistics, biology, and psychology.  
 Philosophers, from Plato and Aristotle to Searle and Dennett, have asked queries and 
provided opinions regarding the character of intelligence and {also the} ability to outline it 
in an exceedingly means that might change North American country to program a pc with 
real intelligence.  
 The Fifties were a time of nice optimism in Artificial Intelligence and also a time of great 
progress within the field.  
 Turing' check could be thanks to determining if a pc is really intelligent, by seeing if it might 
fool a person's in spoken language into thinking that it too was human. it's wide believed nowadays 
that notwithstanding a computer could pass the mathematici an test, it might still not truly be 
conscious or intelligent within the means that humans are.  
 In 1956 the term computer science was coined by John McCarthy.  
 Since the 1950s, the study of computer science has been seasoned with an excellent deal of 
realism. The progress in recent years has been phenomenal. [4]  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
291  AI is, therefore, a part of laptop science. Its history may be a comparatively short one - as an 
associate degree freelance field of study, it dates back to the mid -1950s. The AI approach contras ts 
with an older methodology of finding out cognition, that of experimental psychology. science has 
long had intelligence among its central concerns, intelligence not even as measured in IQ tests, 
however within the broader sense within which it's needed f or thinking, reasoning, and learning, and 
in their conditions high -level sensory activity skills, the representation of data and also the ability to 
use language.[5]  
 
AI in India  
The government of the Republic of India is sharply attempting to extend huma n capital on a national 
scale, with selected stress on its younger population through the talent India initiative, whereas 
seeking to draw in international production to India via its create in India program. the opposite part 
of this modernizing triad is that the Digital India initiative: a determined push to expand digital 
access nationwide. AI can have a right away impact on every of those flagship initiatives of Prime 
Minister Narendra Modi within the immediate future, creating it all the additional imp erative for 
policymakers in India to require seriously AI‘s potential for national ways and to get on the line in 
developing AI technology. For the Republic of India to maximally take pleasure in the AI 
revolution, it should adopt a deliberate policy to dr ive AI innovation, adaptation, and proliferation in 
sectors on the far side simply goods and knowledge technology (IT) services. AI‘s fast diffusion 
begets distinctive opportunities and challenges for India: establishing policies specifically designed 
for the short term and crafting the Modi policies to include and emphasize AI, in addition to for the 
medium and long terms, can enable India to understand the technology‘s full potential. whereas 
India has beyond question been a good person of AI‘s rapid asce nt, AI has however to capture the 
imagination of the country‘s policymakers. In preceding the chance to inaugurate national ways 
regarding AI, the Republic of India runs the chance of falling behind the U. S. and China. AI 
technology has monumental potenti al to form India‘s economic and national security future; within 
the absence of a selected policy regime, however, India can notice it tough to understand the total 
power of AI whereas doubtless falling prey to the prejudicial effects of AI proliferation.[ 6] 
 The development, introduction, and promotion of AI are conspicuously high on the Indian 
government's list of priorities, an approach based on the premise that AI has the potential to make 
life easier and society more egalitarian. In 2018, it provided s ignificant funding for research, 
education, and training in new technologies such as AI, a 100 percent inc rease over previous 
investments . 
 This prioritization of digital technology is not new. The Union Government's Digital India 
initiative aims to transf orm India into a ―digitally empowered knowledge society and economy‖. 
Digital India plans to provide a digital infrastructure as a basic service for all citizens, to incorporate 
such digitization into governance, and ultimately to strengthen citizens. The Digital India program is 
increasing funding for research, education, and training in new technologies such as AI. The 
Government has also begun to work towards ensuring that AI technology is made in India, and made 
to work for India as well, fitting square ly within its Make In India program 
(http://www.makeinindia.com/about ), a government initiative to promote India as a global 
manufacturing hub.  
 While AI has featured as an important consideration in digital technologies broadly, several 
initiatives focused solely on AI have also emerged. This section will offer an analysis of certain 
salient features of each initiative in the scope of this article and does not intend to be an exhaustive 
analysis of ea ch.[7]  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
292 AI in Healthcare Appliances  
Robotic surgery, pc -assisted surgery, and conjointly robotically -assisted surgery are terms for 
technological enhancements that utilize the robotic systems to help in surgical procedures[42]. 
Robotically -assisted surgery  was created to overcome the constraints of preceding minimally -
invasive surgical procedures and to enhance the capability of medicos activity open surgery [43]. 
within the case of robotically -assisted minimally -invasive surgery, rather than straight movin g the 
instruments, the surgeon uses one in all 2 ways to manage the instruments; either an on -the-spot tele 
manipulator or through computer control [44]. A tele manipulator could be a remote controller that 
permits the surgeon to execute the normal activit ies connected with the surgery in the meanwhile the 
mechanistic arms complete those movements victimisation end -effectors and manipulators to try to 
to the $64000 surgery on the patient[45, 46]. In pc -controlled systems, the medico utilizes a 
computer to u pset the robotic arms and its end -effectors, but these systems still utilize tele 
manipulators for his or her data [47]. One useful use of the computerised technique is that the 
surgeon doesn't ought to be out there throughout the surgery, however rather i s any place within the 
world, high to the probability for remote surgery [48]. the foremost acquainted surgical robot is that 
the engineer Surgical System [49]. Recently, Google has reported that it commenced operating with 
the pharmaceutical large Johnson & Johnson is planning a replacement surgical mechanism 
system[50]. they're not the sole revivals, though. With their AXSIS robot, Cambridge advisers are 
after to overcome the constraints of the Vinci, it is of big size and incapability to figure with very 
careful and delicate tissues[51]. Their robot somewhat depends on versatile parts and small, worm -
like arms. The computer programmer| engineer|applied scientist| technologist| computer user} 
contemplate it is applied later in ophthalmology, e.g. in catarac t surgery .  
 Computer science is a growing science that has applications in varied fields further as a 
healthful services framework. Studies demonstrate that AI could be an essentially developing market 
within the field of health care. it's a wide range of  applications during this field love knowledge 
management, drug discovery, diabetic management, digital consultation etcetera  
 There are some established proof that medical AI will play a vital role in serving the doctors and 
patients to deliver healthcar e way more professionally in the twenty -first century.[8]  
 Artificial Intelligence (AI) can facilitate in business and science and progressively each facet of 
our society together with tending. AI was made -up by McCarthy in 1955 and is outlined by ―the 
science and engineering of making intelligent machine‖.AI works with minimal human 
interventions. AI solutions that help front healthcare employees discover and monitor illness 
efficiency. In the Covid -19 pandemic, AI will do a wonderful job for us like Robot s aren‘t suspected 
with the virus so as that they're being deployed to complete several tasks like cleaning, delivering 
food packets in suspected areas, drugs to reduce the human interventions. AI has been applied {to 
several|to several} areas like program  translation systems and intelligent personal assistants. AI 
conjointly found many utilised within the medical field at the side of widespread use of electronic 
health records (EHRs) and fast development natural science together with neuroscience. AI can 
facilitate the discovery of the patterns, heartbeats, and it'll continually police investigation our blood 
heat, pulse.  
 Early detection of chronic illness using AI treatments offers higher improves the standard of 
designation and provides treatments on it . AI will improve the patient's quality of life, additional life 
living chances. it's important to the event of those ways that gives the accuracy within the analysis 
of chronic disease.AI has been recently promoted mutually of the leading options in healt hcare. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
293 With the assistance of AI, machines provide very correct results than humans. The results of 
comparatively easy tasks, similar to tumour detection, carcinoma detection is incredibly satisfactory, 
with United Self -Defense Force of Colombia around 0.9  whereas the additional result's difficult 
2task like mutations transcription standing prediction are less satisfactory. AI can save abundant life, 
with the help of AI we will manufacture the drugs. AI may be an important issue in human life as a 
result of  it'll accuracy in each part of life in medical, healthcare. In healthcare, AI can do a good 
job.[9]  
 The virtual branch includes science approaches from deep learning info management to manage 
of health management systems, as well as electronic health rec ords, and active steering of physicians 
in their treatment decisions. The physical branch is best delineated by robots wont to assist the 
senior patient or the attending surgeon. additionally embodied during this branch are targeted 
nanorobots, a novel new  drug delivery system. The social and moral complexities of those 
applications need additional reflection, proof of their medical utility, economic value, and 
development of knowledge base ways for his or her wider application.[10]  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
Modern producing and supply systems are supported by progressively} omnipresent and powerful 
computing networks. inside these networks, oceans of information are ceaselessly being generated 
by sensors, machines, systems, good devices, and p eople. along with side rising process capabilities, 
this huge knowledge is being analysed faster, more broadly, and more deeply than ever before. 
These advances have redefined the worth of computing (AI) technologies and opened a replacement 
age referred t o as business 4.0 or the good Factory.  
 Advanced psychological feature computing and deep learning ways have begun to search out the 
application in manufacturing systems for automatic visual inspections, fault detection, and 
maintenance. There are active efforts to use reinforcement learning ways to material handling 
systems and production schedules. Industries hoping to convert time knowledge into unjust choices 
look for opportunities to integrate AI methods with ancient Operational analysis approaches, t he 
ideas and technologies of the net of Things (IoT), and cyber -physical systems.[11]  
 Technical means by which new information and communication technologies, intelligent 
science and technology, major manufacturing technologies (including design, producti on, 
management, testing, and integration), technology Engineering, and related product technology are 
integrated into the entire system and product development lifecycle. The manufacturing lifecycle 
then uses autonomous sensing, interconnection, collaborat ion, learning, analysis, cognition, 
decision -making, control, and execution of human, mechanical, material, and information. 
environment to enable the integration and optimization of various aspects of a business or 
manufacturing group, which includes thre e elements (people/organizations, operational management 
and equipment, and technology) and five flows (information flows, flow of logistics, flow of capital, 
knowledge, and flow of services). This facilitates production and provides high -efficiency, high -
quality, convenient, and environmentally friendly service for our use, and thereby improves the 
market competitiveness of the company or manufacturing group.[12]  
 Additive manufacturing (AM) is increasingly used in manufacturing. Due to its rapid growth, 
the efficiency and robustness of AM -based product development processes should be improved. 
Artificial intelligence (AI) is a powerful tool that has surpassed humans in many complex tasks. 
Intelligent agents can reduce the manpower required to increase AM p roduction and achieve greater ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
294 resource efficiency. This study offers an introduction to artificial intelligence techniques. Next, the 
current development of AI -enabled AM product development is investigated. Existing intelligent 
agents are used for product  design, process design, and manufacturing step issues. Based on the 
review, current research gaps and future research directions are identified. more efficient and 
complete intelligent agents, an intelligent AM framework based on cloud edge computing is 
proposed. Global consideration can be achieved in the cloud environment and rapid response can be 
achieved at edge nodes.[13]  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
There are many direct AI applications relevant for national security purposes, both in the United  
States and elsewhere. Kevin Kelly notes that in the private sector, ―The business plans for the next 
10,000 startups are easily predictable - take X and add AI. ―1 There is also a wide range of 
applications for artificial intelligence in national security . Here are some examples from 
cybersecurity, information security, cutting -edge financial and economic tools, defense, intelligence, 
national security, diplomacy, and development. It is meant to be a comprehensive list of all the 
possible uses of AI in the se areas but is merely illustrative examples to help members of the 
Homeland Security community ponder some uses of this evolving technology. (The next section 
looks at how broader AI -driven economic and social change could impact international 
security.)[ 14] 
 Recent developments in artificial intelligence (AI) suggest that this emerging technology will 
have a deterministic and potentially transformative influence on military might, strategic 
competition, and global politics in general. After the initial wa ve of in -depth speculation in the AI 
literature, this article provides much -needed detail for the debate. He argues that left unchecked, the 
uncertainties and vulnerabilities created by the rapid proliferation and spread of AI could become a 
major potentia l source of instability and major strategic rivalry. The article identifies several 
innovations and technological developments related to AI that are likely to have real consequences 
for military applications from the point of view of the tactical battlefi eld at the strategic level.[15]  
 Recently, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are improving connectivity and accessibility for 
civil and military applications. A group of UAVs with cameras onboard usually monitor or collect 
information about designated areas.  Drones can build a distributed network to share/exchange and 
process the collected data before sending it to a data processing center. Huge data transmission 
between them can cause latency and high -power consumption. This article uses artificial intellige nce 
(AI) techniques to process the flow of video data between drones. Therefore, each deployed drone 
only needs to send certain requested information to itself. Each drone processes data using artificial 
intelligence and sends only the data that matters to  others. Drones, formed as a connected network, 
communicate within a short communication range and share their data. The convolutional neural 
network (CNN) technique automatically extracts from images the characteristic that drones send 
only moving objects  rather than entire images. This greatly reduces redundant information for each 
drone or the entire network and saves huge power consumption for the network.[16]  
 
AI in Education  
The field of AI in Education is bothered with the development of AI school f or the study of human 
teaching and for the engineering of systems that facilitate human learning, the sphere addresses 
queries that are semipermanent in nature: however, will systems facilitate learning and change the Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
295 mensuration of learning progress (Lesg old, 1988). The term 'intelligent tutoring system' (ITS) is 
often used regarding the engineering aspect of the discipline. process ways are utilized in support of 
AI activities akin to planning, control, data illustration and acquisition, explanation, psyc hological 
feature modeling, and dialog management. process models are used to explore and assess various 
theories regarding learning. An analysis is actuated by the promise of building captive erful teaching 
systems with larger data a couple of domains, en larged ability to form inferences about student 
behavior, and increased reasoning ability about topic choice and response generation. This entry 
reviews this state of the sphere and discusses the history of the field. It addresses basic approaches to 
putting together teaching systems, recent developments within the field, and open research 
issues.[17]  
 However, whereas Al may need the potential to support the action of the property Development 
Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations, the speedy technological dev elopments inevitably bring 
multiple risks and challenges, that have to date outpaced policy debates and regulative frameworks. 
And, while the most worries would possibly involve AI overwhelming human agency, a lot of 
impending issues involve AI social and moral implications adore the misuse of private knowledge 
additionally the} risk that Al might truly exacerbate instead of cut back existing inequalities.  
 Nonetheless, Al has also entered the world of education. "Intelligent, 'adaptive' associate 
degreed 'personalized learning systems are progressively being developed by the personal sector for 
reading in colleges and universities around the planet, making a market expected to be price US$6 
billion in 2024 (Bhutani and Wadhwani, 2018). Inescapably, the app lying of Al in instructional 
contexts raises profound queries - to Illustrate concerning what ought to be schooled and how, the 
evolving role of teachers, and Al' social and moral implications. There are various challenges, as 
well as problems adore educat ional equity and access. there's also a rising accord that the terrible 
foundations of teaching and learning are also reshaped by the readying of Al in education.  
 All of those problems are more difficult by the large shift to online learning thanks to th e 
COVID -19 faculty closures.  
 Accordingly, this UN agency steerage seeks to assist policy manufacturers in higher perceiving 
the probabilities and implications of Al for teaching and learning, so its application in instructional 
contexts genuinely helps s ucceed SDG 4: guarantee inclusive and equitable quality education and 
promote long learning opportunities for all.[18]  
 
Advantages of Artificial Intelligence  
In a corporation wherein human intelligence is tied to a specific individual or a collection of p eople, 
AI programs can offer permanency that forestalls the know -how from being misplaced while the 
man or woman or the institution participants retire or are not to be had to the corporation. The 
lifestyles of the know -how encapsulated in an AI framework can be so long as the relevance of the 
issues and choice situations continue to be unchanged. AI additionally allows the improvement of a 
mastering functionality which may be applied to in addition extend the lifestyles and relevance of 
the utility. Learni ng from real -international fulfillment and failure is an allowing function of AI 
equipment regarded as ―reinforcement mastering‖ and is effective in that it will increase the 
reliability of the equipment with their accelerated use in programs (2). The exte nsive utility of any 
device best takes place while its reliability has been mounted, and AI has already demonstrated to be 
pretty dependable in lots of unique programs due to its capacity to simulate human intelligence in a 
reasoning process. Like many aut omation, AI helps fee minimization because it allows discounts at 
the want of employees' time. An organisation can lessen sizable workforce time via way of means of ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
296 adopting suitable AI programs withinside the choice -making process, therefore decreasing 
operational costs. As selections ought to regularly be made below apparent uncertainties (i.e., with 
incomplete and unsure know -how), AI techniques are appropriate while a right away mathematical 
dating can not be mounted among reason and impact. AI fashions  seize the uncertainty among real -
lifestyles reason and impact situations via way of means of incorporating to be had know -how with 
chances and chance inference computations (3). AI techniques also can manage each qualitative in 
addition to quantitative re cords, a function that maximum strictly analytical techniques lack. 
Depending upon the computational time in phrases of algorithmic complexity and processor 
capacity, AI equipment can facilitate quicker choice -making via way of means of automating the 
decision-making process. Through records collecting and screening, processing, and choice -making, 
AI can assist quicker answers to complicated issues. A Chowdhury and Sadek 7 In transportation, 
several studies and programs have confirmed some of the above bene fits of AI in general, and 
sizable studies have supplied proof of the benefits of particular AI equipment. Some examples of AI 
generation presently in use encompass changing site visitors sensors into smart retailers that could 
mechanically hit upon and re cord site visitors' injuries or are expecting site visitors' conditions (4). 
More recently, researchers have located AI to be extra dependable in assessing and predicting site 
visitors conditions, primarily based totally on microscopic site visitor records  accumulated from 
motors on their path, as expected withinside the car –infrastructure integration or the related car 
program, in comparison to many different current algorithms. Utilizing microscopic site visitors 
records, transportation protection is some  other realm wherein AI may be of sizable use (5). Here, 
AI equipment may be implemented to the identity of protection breaches, and withinside the 
improvement and control of the computerized reaction and management plans. The famous benefits 
and efficacie s of AI cause them to be especially beneficial withinside the improvement and control 
of transportation systems. Specifically, in smart transportation systems, real -time sensing, detection, 
reaction, and management are of paramount importance, and AI may b e applied efficiently in all of 
those programs. Indeed, a disbursed site visitors sensor and manage community is possibly the 
destiny of real -time site visitors control and manage. Here, disbursed sensor networks, comprised of 
various degrees of smart sens or networks, mechanically hit upon and reply to incidents and manage 
roadway communities as needed. Such a smart sensor community made from AI equipment can 
assist the improvement of the following era site visitors control system. With the numerous benefit s 
of AI equipment, we anticipate their wider adoption in unique regions of transportation.[19]  
 One of the main advantages of Artificial Intelligence is that its decisions are based on facts and 
not emotions. It is known that human decisions are always negatively influenced by our emotions, 
even with our best efforts Unlike humans, machines with Artificial Intelligence do not need to sleep 
and thus overcome the inherent disadvantage of fatigue in humans  
 Easier dissemination of knowledge Once an artifici al mind has been trained for something, it 
can very easily be copied onto others, which reduces the time lost in imparting knowledge to other 
people through training. [20]  
 
Challenges or Disadvantages of Artificial   
The principle behind Weak AI is solely the very fact that machines may be created to act as if 
they're intelligent. Weak AI simply states that thinking like options can be simply added to a 
computer to form them more helpful tools and this has already begu n to happen. For example, once 
a personality player plays chess against a computer, the human player could feel as if the pc is truly 
creating spectacular moves. however, the chess application isn't thinking and coming up with at all. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
297 All the moves it make s are antecedently fed into the computer by a human which is however it's 
ensured that the computer code can build the proper moves at the right times. a lot of samples of 
Weak AI are witness skilled systems, drive -by wires cars, and speech recognisation s ystems 
computer science (abbreviated as AI) is that the capability of a tool to perform activities, which 
might otherwise solely be expected of the human brain. These activities embody the capability for 
data and {also the} ability to accumulate it. It als o includes the power to judge, perceive 
relationships and last however not least turn out original thoughts.  
 Lack of creativeness in responses   
 Inability to clarify the logic and reasoning behind a precise call   
 Current development is at a stage wherev er the AI cannot grasp once there's no answer to a 
particular downside  
 Any defective can cause the AI manufacturing wrong solutions and since it cannot explain the 
reasoning behind its answer, blind reliance on AI can lead to issues   
 Lack of wisdom in reasoning may cause major problems  
 It may be wont to cause mass -scale destruction if given within the wrong hands All this being 
said, one amongst of} the foremost regarding downside with the event of AI is that it'll shortly begin 
work  humans in every field so inflicting a high rate of unemployment, which might cause 
depression, crime, and poverty. Also, some fields need the human bit and there's a growing sense of 
belief that machines will quite probably ne'er be able to replace humans . The caring behavior of 
nurses in hospitals is one example of employment that humans feel machines will never be ready to 
do justice to.[21]  
 
Disadvantages  
It is not easy to develop the machines because the hardware is also expensive. but it will cost 
additional money and resources.  
 Robots, which replace jobs, can cause severe unemployment unless humans can solve the 
unemployment problem with jobs AI cannot do or seriously turn government into communism.  
 Machines can easily destroy if placed in the wrong  hands. That is a minimum of fear of various 
humans.  
 Artificial intelligence makes humans lazy with its applications that automate most of the work. 
Humans tend to get addicted to these inventions which can put a damper on future generations.  
 As artifici al intelligence replaces most repetitive and other tasks with robots, human interference 
decreases, which can be a significant problem in usage standards. Every organization tries to swap 
low-skilled individuals for artificial intelligence robots capable o f doing similar work with greater 
efficiency.  
 There is no doubt that machines are much better when they involve efficient work, but they 
cannot replace the human bond that creates the team.[22]  
 Disadvantages embody its ―black box‖ nature, larger process burden, disposition to overfitting, 
and also the empirical nature of model development. a summary of the options of neural networks 
and logistics regression is presented, and the benefits and disadvantages of exploitation of this 
modeling technique are dis cussed.[23]  
 
References  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intelligence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
298 Chen, H., &  Wang, F. Y. (2005). Guest editors' introduction: Artificial intelligence for homeland 
security. IEEE intelligent systems , 20(5), 12 -16. 
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence ap plications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -375. 
Coppin, B. (2004). Artificial intelligence illuminated . Jones & Bartlett Learning.  
Dick, S. (2019). Artificial intelligence.  
Do, H. T., Truong, L. H., Nguyen, M. T., Chien, C. F., Tran, H. T., Hu a, H. T., ... & Nguyen, N. T. 
(2021). Energy -Efficient Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Surveillance Utilizing Artificial 
Intelligence (AI). Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing , 2021 . 
Garnham, A. (2017). Artificial intelligence: An introduction . Rout ledge.  
Hamet, P., & Tremblay, J. (2017). Artificial intelligence in medicine. Metabolism , 69, S36 -S40. 
Holmes, W., Hui, Z., Miao, F., &Ronghuai, H. (2021). AI and education: A guidance for 
policymakers . UNESCO Publishing.  
Johnson, J. (2019). Artificial int elligence & future warfare: implications for international security. 
Defense& Security Analysis , 35(2), 147 -169. 
Kinkel, S., Baumgartner, M., & Cherubini, E. (2021). Prerequisites for the adoption of AI 
technologies in manufacturing –Evidence from a worldwi de sample of manufacturing 
companies. Technovation , 102375.  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review. Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
Marda, V. (2018). Artificial intelligence policy in India: a framework for engaging the limits of 
data-driven decision -making. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A: 
Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences , 376(2133), 20180087.  
McCarthy, J. (1998). What is artificial intelligence?  
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Pawar, A., & Mary, S. (2020). Artificial Intelligence in Medicine and Healthcare.  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Tu, J. V. (1996). Advantages and disadvantages of using artificial neural networks versus logistic 
regression for predicting medical outcomes. Journal of clinical epidemiology , 49(11), 1225 -
1231.  
Vempati, S. S. (2016). India and the artificial intelligence revolution  (Vol. 1). Carnegie Endowment 
for International Peace.  
Wang, Y., Zheng, P., Peng, T., Yang, H., & Zou, J. (2020). Smart additive manufacturi ng: current 
artificial intelligence -enabled methods and future perspectives. Science China 
Technological Sciences , 63, 1600 -1611.  
Woolf, B. (1991). AI in Education . The University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Department of 
Computer and Information Science.  
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
299 GLIMPSE ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
SATAKSHI PORWAL  
B.Tech in Chemical Engineering  
Email ID: satakshi.porwal2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence?  
[1] It is an art of designing intelligent machines and computer programmes. Basically, it  is relatable 
to recognize human intelligence but it doesn‘t limit the methods which are observed biologically. It 
can be also considered as a computer -based technology which is very efficiently programmed to do 
understand basic human activities and to hel p them.  
 [2] To make human life more fruitful, some computational methods are used to study human 
behaviour which is known as artificial intelligence. In other words, we can say that artificial 
intelligence is the new type of technology and computer -based programme which is evolved to 
reduce the time and work load of humans, with efficiently and effectively in a very small amount of 
time.  
 
History of the Artificial Intelligence  
[3] In earlier times the line of thinking towards artificial intelligence was on ly fiction and 
imagination, means people had no knowledge regarding artificial intelligence. At that time, to use 
this innovative and new kind of technology was not their cup of tea. But as the time flies, some 
fundamental as well as creative inventions in  the field of engineering and electronic items lead to 
boost the artificial intelligence. For example, in earlier time, in mathematics, to solve the big sums, 
or three variable equations, people used to solve it through pen and paper. But as the time passe d 
away, inventions such as calculators and scientific calculators resolve this problem, they helped to 
solve big or step -based problems in some seconds.  
 [4] In ancient times, people were not friendly with the good advantages of artificial intelligence. 
For example, 20 years ago, people didn‘t have android phones whereas today, most of the people 
have it and now, mobile phones have become a daily part of our life. Even that, now a days people 
loved, familiar as well as enjoyed this new type of evolution of technology and feel happy to use this 
in their daily lives also. As our country is developing country, the Artificial Intelligence helped 
humans a lot to become advanced, fast and modern.  
 
Growth of Artificial Intelligence  
[5] Nowadays, artificial intelli gence is becoming more efficient in modern society. It has helped the 
many parts of the world through its creative and new innovations. In this modern world, artificial 
intelligence is familiar in many people. For example, we can also say that, in these da ys, where each 
and every person in this world is busy in their own work, one of the best inventions, through the 
technology of artificial intelligence that is smart phone, with the help of them, we can do video calls, 
we can be stay connected through our f amily members as well as our relatives even if we are living 
far away from them. Now, at this stage artificial intelligence has become a major source of 
connecting people from far away parts of this world. Specialists honestly considered that artificial 
intelligence is becoming self -dependent day by day.  
 [6] Artificial Intelligence has assists to read and learn many of the activities and projects 
regardless of any field. It has proved itself to be very beneficial either it is a field of business, 
science or government through its excellent discoveries.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
300 Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare Appliances  
[7] As the time passed away, artificial intelligence had a great impact in healthcare area. For 
complex characteristics of human skin, the artificial intelligence device like Tactile sensor -based e -
skin are used. With the help of computer and program interactive robots are also preferred for 
pressure sensing.  
 [8] In these days, doctor doesn‘t require to remember each and everything as earlier they do. 
Due to artificial intelligence each and everything is now computerised, which leads to reduce the 
mental pressure of the doctor. In past few years, there is a positive growth seen in the field of 
healthcare by artificial intelligence.  
 [9] In this modern w orld of technology, mobile phones are also termed as mini hospital at the 
time of serious cases. There has also been development in manufacture of medicine and modern 
artificial intelligence has played a major role in it.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Manufa cturing and Production  
[10] Computer techniques and artificial intelligence has a useful impact in the area of manufacturing 
and production industry. A huge availability of sensors and smart devices is increasing in modern 
world has evolved. Artificial In telligence helped people to examine the quality of product faster, 
more deeply as well as broadly. Artificial Intelligence helped to analyse the things in a very proper 
and systematic way.  
 [11] With the initiation of artificial intelligence, quality of pr oduct has been enlarged. It is also 
cost-effective and eco -friendly in some aspects, but in some ways, some of the inventions of 
artificial intelligence may harm the environment as well as it is also not cost -efficient. For example, 
the creation of self -driving cars. First of all, they are not much affordable by each and every 
common people, plus the batteries through which they are invented are not that much easy to 
recycle. Through safety purpose also, they are not that much better.  
 [12] Artificial Intel ligence is also used in creating the environment cost control of 
manufacturing sector. Through the sources of internet, we can spread awareness about to save 
environment and all. The automatic robots and machines, we can do this efficiently and 
successfull y. 
 
Artificial Intelligence in Security and Surveillance  
[13] Artificial intelligence played a very important role in security and surveillance. Information 
Technology has made it possible to identify any unusual activities. By the help of artificial 
intelligence, one can easily get alerts for any critical unusual activities. For example, advanced 
technology -based mobile phones with extra tight security are very protected. They cannot get easily 
hacked or something. Artificial Intelligence has proved itsel f very beneficial to identify unusual 
activities taking place against you anywhere.  
 [14] All the country‘s military forces started implementation of artificial intelligence. The 
biggest example is the invention of drones. Drones and advanced technology ba sed hidden cameras 
(which are usually used for string operations) helps to keep an eye on the attack which is going to be 
done on our military forces through our rival. This also helps our military forces to previously be 
prepared for attack and take a fas t action against it. So, this also helps our military forces to do 
adventurous and difficult task with zero risk.  
 [15] Artificial Intelligence have a great impact on military application for a tactical battlefield 
on a view of strategic level. Inventions of advanced feature as well as advance technology -based 
weapons helped a lot to the military forces.  
 Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
301 Artificial Intelligence in Education  
[16] From past 25 years, Artificial Intelligence had consequent change in the field of education. By 
introducing mode rn and new technologies, it reduces most of the pressure of human lives. Invention 
of devices such as laptops, computers, calculators, etc helps to solve step -based problems in 
mathematics and science which saves a lot of time.  
 [17] Nowadays, in the fiel d of education, there is a vast use of artificial intelligence like 
standard use of computer -based programmes. It can be easily observed that the students of today‘s 
generation are very much interested in learning coding and making advanced as well as pers onalized 
learning apps and games. Also, the artificial intelligence and technology equipment results the 
implantation of robots which helps to enhance the elementary education of the students.  
 [18] Usually students were used to gain knowledge through book s and theoretically, but as the 
Artificial Intelligence enhanced, now the students are able to recognise the things practically and 
experimentally as well. For example, we can say that, after the evolution of smart board and smart 
classes, students learnt very new kind of things much faster as compared to they learnt through 
books. So, up to many extents, Artificial intelligence technology has benefitted the education field a 
lot. 
 
Advantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[19] The fast as well as advance elect rical sensing devices had helped to progress artificial 
intelligence in the field of healthcare. Inventions of pressure sensors helped humans a lot. By 
providing certain signals, it generates various pressure such as blood pressure which is a standard 
healthcare indicator.  
 [20] Artificial Intelligence had already proved itself to be very advantageous. Its ability to 
provoke human intelligence and its cost efficiency reduces the personal time of humans. One of the 
best example, through the invention of artificial intelligence is that, due to our smart mobiles, we 
can shop online, as well as many kind of apps are launched through which we can book online 
tickets for travelling and also search the best places to visit. For students of new generation, the 
gadgets and invention taking place in the field of artificial intelligence has made them creative, 
innovative as well as modern.  
 [21] As the artificial intelligence emerged in the modern world, it helps to collect the large data 
based on clinical histories  very easily. It also helps to share a common presentation related to 
disease from every field.  
 [22] The advantage of using an AI -based sizing of Photovoltaic (PV) systems is to provide 
better expansion, especially in remote areas where the data of atmosp heric conditions are not 
available. For example, we can say that, like, in remote areas, the supply of electricity is not that 
much possible as compare to those who are living in big cities. So, to resolve this problem, with the 
help of artificial intellig ence, invention of Photovoltaic type of system are evolved, such as solar 
panels help to generate electricity through the help of sun which can be possible in remote areas as 
well.  
 [23] Artificial Intelligence also benefitted the banks to identify the fra uds in trading, algorithm -
based lending models and many other things also. Creations like CCTV cameras and GPS trackers 
helped a lot to tolerate many crimes, robbery as well as fraud taking place in many parts of the 
world.  
 ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
302 Challenges or Disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[24] The biggest challenge faced by Artificial Intelligence is that, most of the human jobs get 
affected and unemployment has increased. In some aspects there is also an increment of crime. For 
example, in big countries like America , Japan, there all the works are taken place through automatic 
machines, like in hospital, shopping malls, robots help to find all the items successfully through 
which the manual work gets disappeared, also there is no payment or salary which is provided t o the 
robots by which the unemployment has increased at a drastic rate.  
 [25] Challenges in acquiring the techniques of Artificial Intelligence is mostly faced in public 
sectors recognized as key stakeholders. Findings show that different stakeholders have  diverse, and 
sometimes contradictory, framings of the challenges. Most of the people such as farmers, small 
businessman or the people living in remote areas don‘t know how to use the advanced technology -
based machines also, advanced machines with advanced  technology also became very costly which 
cannot be afforded by common people too. This leads to be the biggest disadvantage of this 
technology.  
 [26] To handle too large data efficiently, new techniques, large volume, variety and velocity of 
this data. Li ke, sometimes due when the smart devices such as mobile phones, computer or laptops, 
whenever there is a collection of large data or storage gets filled, the device gets hanged, face some 
technical issue or stop working which leads to a big problem in our daily lives. Use of the evidence 
generated were also seen as significant challenges.  
 [27] The biggest disadvantage faced by artificial intelligence is that it can only perform those 
functions which are programmed in it, outside of this, it doesn‘t give an y output. It is a big drawback 
of artificial intelligence. It means that the functions which are coded or programmed in it, it only 
gives output for those only. Other than that, it has no scope or output. Sometimes, if the programme 
is coded incorrectly, t hen also it does not give any output.  
 [28] There are some social and juristic challenges faced by artificial intelligence. With a focus 
on torts that are at least partly or seemingly due to artificial intelligence, resulting in the claimant 
suffering a loss or harm. Sometimes what happened, if some of inventions of artificial intelligence 
get failed or not get much popular between people or disliked by the common people then artificial 
intelligence has to faced the social challenge like failure memes on social media and criticism.  
 
Conclusion  
From this whole, we can conclude that artificial intelligence has now became a daily part of our life. 
It has some advantages and disadvantages but it benefits human at a huge aspect by reducing a lot of 
work and tra nsforming it into a computational process. As far as we can also see that, Artificial 
intelligence has showed a very drastic and unbelievable growth in every field. Starting from its 
history, when artificial intelligence was unknown to everyone, it was ver y difficult for people to be 
familiar from it. But as time goes on, it shows a fantabulous development in reaching to the whole 
world. Now, artificial intelligence is common as well as very popular in all over the world. There is 
not a single field where e ither the devices or the technology of artificial intelligence is not used, 
either it is in the field of science, government, security and surveillance , manufacturing and 
production, healthcare appliances, medical care, entertainment or in the education. E verywhere, 
artificial intelligence is widely famous and familiar. On the other hand, we can also conclude that 
the technology of artificial intelligence has made the humans very lazy day by day. Due to invention 
of many automatic machines, human didn‘t wan t to do work at his own. Now, humans want to buy 
and shop everything online, daily exercise of humans get reduced due to which their physical heath 
also get affected. Same is seen in students also, students spent most of their time with digital gadgets 
only, they don‘t even play outdoor games.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
303  Now a days through the sources of internet and entertainment also, people are trying to spread 
awareness about how artificial intelligence is very useful as well as beneficial to everyone. Rather in 
some areas it has  disadvantages but slowly -slowly, invention of new technology and creative 
equipment are trying to overcome its all disadvantages.  
 
References  
Aghion, P., Jones, B. F., & Jones, C. I. (2019).  9. Artificial Intelligence and Economic Growth  (pp. 
237-290). University of Chicago Press.  
Agrawal, A., McHale, J., & Oettl, A. (2019).  5. Finding Needles in Haystacks: Artificial Intelligence 
and Recombinant Growth  (pp. 149 -174). University of Chicago Press.  
Baker, M. J. (2000). The roles of models in Artificial Int elligence and Education research: a 
prospective view.  Journal of Artificial Intelligence and Education , 11, 122 -143. 
Benko, A., & Lányi, C. S. (2009). History of artificial intelligence. In  Encyclopedia of Information 
Science and Technology, Second Edition  (pp. 1759 -1762). IGI Global.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of arti ficial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53. 
Charniak, E. (1985).  Introduction to artificial intelligence . Pearson Education India.  
Chen, H., & Wang, F. Y. (2005). Guest editors' introduction: Artificial intelligence for homeland 
security.  IEEE intelli gent systems , 20(5), 12 -16. 
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review.  Ieee Access , 8, 
75264 -75278.  
Chen, M., Liu, Q., Huang, S., & Dang, C. (2020). Environmental cost control system of 
manufacturing enterprises u sing artificial intelligence based on value chain of circular 
economy.  Enterprise Information Systems , 1-20. 
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems:  algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial 
intelligence.  Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -
375. 
Davenport, T. H. (2018).  The AI  advantage: How to put the artificial intelligence revolution to work . 
MIT Press.  
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., & Scharre, P. (2018).  Artificial 
intelligence and international security . Center for a New American Secu rity. 
Johnson, J., 2019. Artificial intelligence & future warfare: implications for international 
security.  Defense & Security Analysis , 35(2), pp.147 -169. 
Khanna, S., Sattar, A., & Hansen, D. (2013). Artificial intelligence in health –the three big 
challen ges. The Australasian medical journal , 6(5), 315.  
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review. International Journal of Library & 
Information Science (IJLIS),  9(1), 3.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
304 Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
McCarthy, J. (2007). Wh at is artificial intelligence?.  
Mellit, A., Kalogirou, S. A., Hontoria, L., & Shaari, S. (2009). Artificial intelligence techniques for 
sizing photovoltaic systems: A review.  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews , 13(2), 
406-419. 
Murali¹, N., & Sivakum aran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Perc, M., Ozer, M., & Hojnik, J. (2019). Social and juristic challenges of artificial 
intelligence.  Palgrave Communications , 5(1), 1 -7. 
Roll, I., & Wylie, R. (2016). Evolution and revolution in artificial intelligence in 
education.  International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education , 26(2), 582 -599. 
Sun, T. Q., & Medaglia, R. (2019). Mapping the challenges of Artificial Intelligence in the public 
sector: Evidence from public healthca re. Government Information Quarterly , 36(2), 368 -
383. 
Szolovits, P. (Ed.). (2019).  Artificial intelligence in medicine . Routledge.  
Wagner, J. B. (2019). Artificial intelligence in medical imaging.  Radiologic technology , 90(5), 489 -
501. 
Zang, Y., Zhang, F.,  Di, C. A., & Zhu, D. (2015). Advances of flexible pressure sensors toward 
artificial intelligence and health care applications.  Materials Horizons , 2(2), 140 -156. 
Zang, Y., Zhang, F., Di, C. A., & Zhu, D. (2015). Advances of flexible pressure sensors toward 
artificial intelligence and health care applications.  Materials Horizons , 2(2), 140 -156. 
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
305 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN REAL LIFE  
 
SHIVLI GUPTA  
B.Tech Computer Science  
Email ID: shivli.gupta2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence ? 
[1] Artificial intelligence is the science and engineering of manufacturing intelligent machines 
mainly intelligent computer programmes. It is as same as using computers so they know about 
human intelligence which is not biological.[2] Artificial intelligence have divided the topic into its 
major areas of operations such as natural language processing, robotics, machine vision, automatic 
theorem proving, intelligent data retrieval systems, etc. The main difficulty with this is to approach 
these application area s are now so extensive, that each could, at best, be only superficially treated in 
a book of this length. Artificial intelligence ideas that comes under many of these applications. 
Organization of these ideas is not, then, based on the subject matter of th eir application, but is, 
instead, based on general computational concepts involving the kind of data structure used, the types 
of operations performed on these data structures, and the properties of control strategies used by the 
artificial intelligence  
 
History of Artificial intelligence  
[3] Artificial intelligence is introduced to define the ability to interpret external data correctly, to 
learn from such data, and to use learning which help to achieve specific goals and task.[4] In history, 
artificial in telligence is used in finding philosophy, fiction and imagination. Early invention in 
electronics, engineering and many other disciplines have influenced artificial intelligence.  
 
Growth of Artificial Intelligence  
[5] Recently, growth of artificial intelligence, and its implications for understanding human 
behavior. The range of possible association between sociology and artificial intelligence reflects the 
extent to which we are wiling to adopt the features of artificial intelligence.[6] the effects  of 
Artificial intelligence depend on a major extent of institution and politics. Artificial intelligence 
surplus the growth by replacing labor by capital, both in the production of goods and services and in 
the production of ideas.  
 
AI in Health Care Appl iances  
[7] Artificial intelligence in health care have effectively enhances the quality of telecare and save 
medical resources for reasonable distribution and full application so that self -health can enhance and 
reduce the outpatient visits and save the ou tpatient time as well as expenditure.[8] Artificial 
intelligence is used to measure the stress level especially TTH (Tension Type Headache) which is a 
serious problem in today‘s world. To measure the stress level, the concept of EEG, EMG and GSR 
are introd uced. In TTH, human is in a state in which one experiences pain like a physical weight or a 
tight band around his head.[9] Due to lack of social care support, there is an arise of cost -effective 
assistive healthcare technology for taking care of the elders  and giving them best tech -friendly 
experience.  
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
306 AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[10] Agriculture area and food production are facing increasing pressure from climate change, land 
and water availability, and most recently pandemic. Thanks to artificial intelligence, we can now 
quantify field scale phenotypic information accurately and integrate the big data. Artificial 
intelligence has improved the resilience of agriculture systems.  [12] To promote sustainability, smart 
production requires glo bal perspective of smart production application technology. There are many 
AI-based techniques, such as machine learning, have already been established in the industry to 
achieve sustainable manufacturing.[13] Artificial intelligence is used to build intel ligent systems, no 
matter whether utilized in an industrial or private environment. AI - based have been proposed for 
the increasingly important electric drives production.  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
[14] Asignificant application of artificial intell igence is intelligent surveillance, which aims to 
interpret automatically human activity and detect unusual events that could pose a threat to public 
security and safety.  [15] Security cameras and video surveillance system have become important for 
securit y purpose. The detection of high -risk situation through these systems are still performed 
manually in many cities. The lack of manpower in the security sector and human cannot detect 
danger or delay in detecting threats. The main purpose is to develop a lo w-cost, efficient and 
artificial solution for the real -time detection.  [16] Surveillance is the process of close observation of 
a person, place, or object to avoid and minimize the risk of any undesired dangerous situation to 
maintain normalcy. The use of information and communication technologies have increased the 
level automation and have made it a part of surveillance application. The aspects of automation have 
greatly reduced human intervention and have made systems more reliable and efficient.  
 
Artifi cial Intelligence in Education  
[17] Artificial Intelligence have been shown to be highly effective at increasing students‘ 
performance and motivation. As in ITS for economics, performed equally well as student taking a 
traditional economics course, but re quired half as much time covering the material.  [18] Artificial 
Intelligence in education is concerned with development of artificial Intelligence techniques for the 
study of human teaching and for the engineering of system that facilitate human learning. It is used 
to explore and evaluate alternative theories about learning.  [19] Artificial Intelligence in education 
department provides an overview of both the classic and emerging architectures, pointing to the 
many aspects of Artificial Intelligence that p lay an important role in creating these systems.  
 
Advantage of Artificial Intelligence  
[20] Artificial Intelligence applications are utilized to simulate human intelligence for either solving 
a problem or making a decision. Artificial Intelligence provide s the advantages of permanency, 
reliability and costeffectiveness while also addressing uncertainty and speed in either solving a 
problem or reaching a decision. [21] Major advantage of artificial intelligence is that its decisions 
are based on facts rathe r than emotions. It is well -known fact that human decisions are always 
affected in a negative way by our emotions. Unlike humans, machines do not need any sleep. [22] 
Industrial revolution attempted to create machines that could replace man‘s physical powe r. It is one 
time investment and have make the easy and simple. [23] Artificial Intelligence has the ability to 
detect and diagnose faults of building energy systems. This paper aims at making a comprehensive Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
307 literature review of artificial intelligence -based fault detection and diagnosis (FDD). They showed 
powerful capacity in learning patterns from training data. [24] Due to rapid advancement of 
technology, artificial intelligence has been a thriving area in different fields, including medicines. 
Gastroen terology AI software has been included in computer -aided systems for diagnosis and to 
improve the assertiveness of automatic polp detection and its classification as a preventive method 
for CRC.  
 
Disadvantages or Challenges of AI  
[25] Some time it can be  misused leading to mass destruction. Programme mismatch sometime done 
opposite to the command, unemployment increases. Younger generation is becoming lazy. 
Technology dependency increased. [26] It is not an easy task to develop the machine because the 
equipment are also expensive. Machines can easily cause destruction, if put within the incorrect 
hands. Artificial Intelligence is making human lazy with its applications. [27] Talent training 
programs, the training of artificial intelligence awareness and ab ility has not been really 
incorporated into vocational education, which has affected the development of professional talent 
training objects. If the training goal of artificial intelligence is not included in the professional 
education plan. [28] Challenge s of artificial intelligence in healthcare are informed consent to use, 
safety and transparency, algorithmic fairness and biases and data privacy. Legal challenges are 
safety and effectiveness, liability, data protection and privacy, cybersecurity and inte llectual 
property law. [29] New technologies that are fusing physical, digital and biological worlds, 
impacting all disciplines, economics and industries. These rapid and abrupt changes in society that 
radically changed human life and occurred in a certain  period of time.  
 
Conclusion  
Artificial Intelligence, as per name, we can imagine the intelligence which is artificial or man -made. 
Artificial Intelligence is the science of making intelligent machines.  
 Growth of artificial intelligence is increasing rapidly by replacing labour by capital, both in the 
field of growth and production. Artificial intelligence has the quality in the field of telecare and save 
medical resources. It is also used to measure stress level.  
 It has also help in the field of agri culture as this area and food production area are facing 
increasing pressure from climate change, land and water availability, and pandemic. Machines are 
also very helpful for agriculture which have increase the rate of productivity and decrease the stress  
level of farmer.  
 In security, purpose it is very important which aims to interpret automatically human activity 
and detect unusual events that could pose a threat to public security and safety.  
 For students also it is highly effective. As at the time of  Covid -19, all work process is going 
online and student‘s study also. And now students can understand easily with the help of artificial 
intelligence.  
 Artificial intelligence applications are used to solve a problem or decision making.It had also 
replace d man‘s physical power and has ability to detect and diagnose faults. Artificial intelligence 
make decision based on the facts rather than emotion.  
 Besides this, there are some disadvantages of artificial intelligence as younger generation is 
becoming laz y. It will destructive when come in wrong hands. Technology dependency increase. 
These rapid changes in society had changed human life also.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
308 References  
A Mayr , M Weigelt , M Masuch , M Meiners , F Hüttel…  - … Manufacturing , 2018 – Elsevier  
AI Strong - Science [ETEBMS -2016], 2016 - test.globalinfocloud.com  
B Woolf - 1991 - cs.umass.edu  
BG Buchana n - Ai Magazine, 2005 - ojs.aaai.org  
D Ganesh, G Seshadri…  - … and Informatics (IC3I  …, 2019 - ieeexplore.ieee.org  
G Huang, LUO Yu -Zhou, Q Zhi -Wang  - Revista de Cercetaresi  …, 2019 - ceeol.com  
J Beck, M Stern, E Haugsjaa - XRDS: Crossroads, The ACM Magazin e …, 1996 - dl.acm.org  
J Borah,  KK Sarma , PJ Gohain  - Smart Devices, Applications, and  …, 2019 - igi-global.com  
J Jung, M Maeda, A Chang, M Bhandari…  - Current Opinion in  …, 2021 – Elsevier  
J Kay - IEEE Intelligent Systems, 2012 - ieeexplore.ieee.org  
J McCarthy - 2007 - 35.238.111.86  
KCA Khanzode, RD Sarode - … of Library & Information Science (IJLIS), 2020 - academia.edu  
M Chowdhury, AW Sadek - Artificial intelligence applications to …, 2012 - onlinepubs.trb.org  
M Guo - proceedings -online.com  
M Haenlein , A Kaplan  - California management review, 2019 - journals.sagepub.com  
M Viscaino, JT Bustos, P Muñoz… - World Journal of …, 2021 - ncbi.nlm.nih.gov  
NJ Nilsson - 1982 - books.google.com  
P Aghion , C Antonin , S Bunel  - Economie et Statistique, 2019 - persee.fr  
R Cioffi, M Travaglioni, G Piscitelli, A Petrillo…  - Sustainability, 2020 - mdpi.com  
R Rastogi, DK Chaturvedi, M Gupta  - … Intelligence  in Healthcare  …, 2020 - igi-global.com  
S Bhbosale, V Pujari, Z Multani - Aayushi International …, 2020 - researchgate .net  
S Dimitrieska, A Stankovska… - Economics and …, 2018 - ideas.repec.org  
S Gerke, T Minssen, G Cohen - Artificial intelligence in healthcare, 2020 - Elsevier  
S Gong , CC Loy , T Xiang  - Visual analys is of humans, 2011 – Springer  
S Mogali - … on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and …, 2014 - researchgate.net  
S Woolgar  - Sociology, 1985 - journals.sagepub.com  
S Xu , K Hung  - 2020 IEEE 10th Symposium on Computer  …, 2020 - ieeexplore.ieee.org  
Y Zhao, T Li, X Zhang, C Zhang - Renewable and Sustainable Energy …, 2019 – Elsevier  
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
309 AN INSIGHT INTO ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
Z.H. MOHAMED ARSHAD  
Email ID: mohamedarshad.zh2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is AI?  
[1]The branch of computer science which involves the study of the relationship between perception 
and computation is known as artificial intelligence. Programs are written in order to receive some 
intelligent behavior. Programming languages are considered as the most important tools in AI since 
these help in solving certain kinds of problems. The programs are conceived and implemented in the 
programming languages. [2]The branch that fills the gap between scientists of human characters and 
the computer scien tists is known as artificial intelligence. It can also be stated as the attempt to make 
computers intelligent. The goal of artificial intelligence is to enable computers to accomplish tasks 
that humans are good at.  
 
History of AI  
[3]The birth of AI can be traced at 1942, when Isaac Asimov, an American Science Fiction writer, 
had published his story ‗Runaround‘ which was about a robot evolving with the ‗Three Laws of 
Robotics‘. This story inspired many scientists in the field of AI. At  roughly the same time Alan 
Turing, an English Mathematician developed ‗The Bombe‘, generally considered as the first 
working electromechanical computer which was a code breaking machine for the British 
government mainly used for deciphering the Enigma cod e used by the German in World War 2. This 
machine‘s ability made Turing wonder about intelligence of such machines. In 1950, the article 
‗Computing Machinery and Intelligence‘ was published by him where he mentioned how to create 
intelligent machines and t est their intelligence. This Turing Test is the benchmark even today to 
identify intelligence of an artificial system. The word ‗Artificial Intelligence‘ was then coined 
officially in 1956 when Marvin Minsky and John McCarthy (who were scientists) had host ed the 
‗Dartmouth Summer Research Project on Artificial Intelligence (DSRPAI) which marked the 
beginning of the AI Spring. The goal of DSRPAI was to reunite researchers from other fields to 
create a new research area which aimed at building machines that a re able to simulate human 
intelligence. [4]The founding father of the branch of AI was Alan Turing who was a British logician 
and mathematician. He had published an article ‗Computing Machinery and Intelligence‘ which 
began with the question ‗Can machines think?‘. This article had inaugurated the philosophy of AI. 
He had declared that by the end of the century ‗the use of general educated opinion and words will 
alter so much that one can speak of machines thinking without expecting to get contradicted‘. In 
1936, he had written (almost by accident) a paper on the logical foundations of a computer design. 
In the article he was mainly concerned with an abstract problem in mathematical logic and while 
solving it, he managed to invent in concept, the stored progr am general purpose computer which are 
nowadays known as Turing machines. During war, Turing worked as a codebreaker at Bletchley 
Park and this made them win the war with the help of Turing machines. This accidental discovery of 
an imaginary computer domina ted Turing‘s professional life and he passionately involved to the 
development of real machines.  
 
 ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
310 Growth of AI  
[5]Due to significant investment globally from both public as well as private, there has been 
development, implementation and adoption of AI. Ma ny countries have implemented national 
strategies to get leadership and advantages in the development of AI. This is because development in 
AI is considered as the crucial factor to the national growth. Such developments are likely to be 
adopted to the ben efits of the nations. This rapid advancement and investment in AI is popularly 
known as ‗AI race‘. [6]Industries, media and political organizations showed a good interest in AI in 
the recent years as applications and research in the field of AI are increas ing everywhere. The 
industries are interested in the potential applications of AI. In July 2016, a report stated that many IT 
giants have acquired about 140 entrepreneurial firms in AI since 2011. 200 AI related companies 
have raised over 1.5 billion dolla rs in the stock market in the first six months of 2016.  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[7]There is a great hope that AI surpasses human performance in healthcare. AI makes it possible 
for better detection, prevention, diagnosis and treatment of the diseases.  Cancer, neurology, diabetes 
and cardiology use AI tools. AI is helpful in automatically detecting problems and the threats to the 
patient safety with high accuracy and speed. Research of AI is in process to provide a more unified 
healthcare delivery. [8]AI techniques have risen rapidly in healthcare , which even rose the question 
of whether there will be AI controlled doctors rather than human physicians in the future. This might 
not be possible but however it is quite possible that AI would assist human p hysicians which would 
enable them to make better clinical decisions and can even replace human judgement in few areas of 
healthcare like radiology. Some achievements of AI in the area of healthcare includes the increasing 
availability of healthcare data an d unlocking clinically relevant info which is hidden in massive 
amount of data through powerful AI. [9]AI is beginning to be applied in healthcare since these have 
the potential to transform aspects of patient care, the administrative processes with the 
pharmaceutical organisations, provider and the payer. Research suggests that AI would be 
performing better than humans in key healthcare tasks. Even today, algorithms are outperforming 
radiologists in spotting tumours and are guiding researchers for costly c linical trails.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[10]The application of AI in industries has enhanced quality control (eg: turbofan blades can be 
inspected in 3D by the manufacturer with micrometer precision),enabled predictive maintenance 
(eg: failure can be stopped in equipments by spotting even subtle changes with the help of 
networked sensors),  reduced energy and material costs ,inventory optimization, product design  
(eg: aircraft parts were created by airbus that are much lighter than those designe d by humans), 
improved safety, and environmental performance. [11] AI helps in analyzing ,monitoring and 
making better decisions rather than human operators which benefits smart manufacturing whose 
technologies includes industrial connectivity devices and services, big data processing capabilities 
and robotic systems. In this way, it changes the method in which the products are manufactured, 
packed, shipped and finally sold. The final goal is to build machines that have intelligence like 
humans in order to do the decision making process. [12] AI is being applied in the field of intelligent 
manufacturing which is a new manufacturing model. This facilitates the production and thus 
provides high quality, high efficiency, environment friendly and cost effective service for the users 
which improves competitiveness in the market of the manufacturing groups. AI also helps in 
developing new models, system architecture and technology systems in the area of intelligent 
manufacturing.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
311 AI in Security and Surveillance  
[13] AI has the ability to monitor the flow of video data and the data collected from large number of 
sensors and thus can warn about any suspicious activity to the security services. If polices have AI in 
high quality computer systems then their routine offi ce work would rather be done by those 
computers and there can be increase in the presence of police in urban areas. Today, polices are 
already taking the help of robots in various activities which include disposing explosive devices, 
conducting search and rescue operations and also in destroying armed criminals. [14] Development 
of AI would impact national security in three areas which are information superiority, economic 
superiority and military superiority. In information superiority, AI would enhance ca pabilities for 
the creation, analysis and collection of data while in the case of economic superiority, progress in AI 
would result in an industrial revolution. In the case of military superiority, advances in AI will 
enhance the affordability of existing capabilities as well as produce new capabilities. [15] AI 
technologies also help militaries by making the defense leaders understand better about their own 
forces. These help in identifying stress on the force in various areas like when service members can  
suffer with low performance or have any physical or psychological injuries, when their equipments 
would require maintenance and when programs can suffer cost overruns or schedule delays. With 
this, we can say that AI has the potential to do predictive ana lysis and bring up the readiness of 
forces of the defense leaders.  
 
AI in Education  
[16] Study shows that AI is implemented in education in various forms. Using these facilities 
teachers are performing different administrative functions, such as grading and reviewing students 
assignments more effectively and efficiently, and increase the quality of their teaching activities.  
[17] To teachers, many of the AI systems that have been developed are mostly delivered through 
computers and to instructors they lea ve no real part to play in the use of the system. As a 
consequence, AI currently has little or no part of the activities in a classroom  [18] There has been an 
increase in the interest in improving and understanding the adoption of AI techniques in the fiel d of 
education in both educational institutions and government sectors. Applications and tools driven by 
AI technologies, is being used by educators and learners within both K -12 and university contexts. 
AI technologies help in providing personalized learn ing in order to meet the individual‘s needs.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[19] Simulation of human intelligent activity can be done.It organizes effectively various resources 
so that information data can meet the sharing and transmision needs of different users. It h as an 
excellent reasoning and learning ability in the network intelligence. It improves the network 
operation management level and the efficiency of information processing.  [20] It makes the network 
management have the ability of information processing. It  manages and controls better the 
uncertainty information ,thus improving the network system. It shows better collaboration between 
all management levels. It has improved the teaching effect.  [21]AI can mimic human intelligence for 
making decisions or solvi ng problems. It has the advantage of reliability, permanency and cost -
effectiveness while also addressing speed solving problems or making a decision. [22]  The decisions 
of AI are based on facts rather than emotions is one of the major advantage of it beca use it is well 
known that the human decisions are affected by our emotions in a negative way. Machines 
containing AI do not need any sleep thus overcoming the disadvantage of tiredness in humans.  
[23] With the help of AI , human works are reduced since the y are replaced by machines, thus 
making them focus on others works. AI is like a cheap labor with which our work will be done fast 
and the profit gets increased.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
312 Challenges or Dis -advantages of AI  
[24] It was predicted that AI would destroy 5 million jobs in the upcoming five years. Some gains in 
energy , resources and time -savings will be nullified by AI. AI increases the competitive pressure. If 
fallen in wrong hands, hackers and terrorists get the ability to manipulate and access through 
security holes i n the network protocols.  [25]. Disadvantages of AI is that since the equipments are 
expensive, it is not  easy to develop the machines. Also it costs tons of money and time to create , 
repair and rebuild. Robotic repair can scale back time but that rather c osts extra money and 
resources. [26]  Limitation of AI search methods is that they never guarantee to reach the optimal 
solution. Also when using such methods to solve a problem, it is difficult to gain true insight into the 
problem such as when using mathe matical programming methods. Sensitivity analyses cannot be 
done quickly which is an important example of this limitation.  [27] Disadvantages of AI include 
lack of creativity in responses, unable to explain the reasoning and logic behind a certain decision. 
In current stage ,AI cannot predict when there is no possible solution to a particular problem. 
Malfunctioning of AI machines can lead them to produce wrong solutions to problems which 
justifies that blind reliance on AI can lead to problems.It c an also cause large scale destruction if it is 
given in the hands of wrong person . [28] There are few main disadvantages of AI which are stated 
as follows. If a program is sometimes mismatched, it would do opposite to what is actually 
mentioned in the comm and. AI affects human jobs due to which the problem of unemployment 
increases. Since AI lack human touch, it makes the younger generation to become lazy in doing their 
work and depend on technology.  
 
Conclusion  
From the above insight we can conclude that AI is going to dominate the upcoming generation. It is 
currently being used in every fields with development simultaneously and will continue to be used 
everywhere. Just like other things, AI has its own advantages and disadvantages but the advantages 
seem  to be dominating over the disadvantages as there is a lot of improvement in it over time. Thus, 
there is no doubt that it will make a great impact on the society as everyone will almost completely 
depend on AI in their daily lives in the upcoming future.  
 
Reference s 
Akerkar, R. (2014).  Introduction to artificial intelligence . PHI Learning Pvt. Ltd..  
Allen, G., & Chan, T. (2017).  Artificial intelligence and national security . Cambridge, MA: Belfer 
Center for Science and International Affairs.  
Barr, A., & Fe igenbaum, E. A. (Eds.). (2014).  The Handbook of Artificial Intelligence: Volume 
2 (Vol. 2). Butterworth -Heinemann.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplin ary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review.  Ieee Access , 8, 
75264 -75278.  
Chen, X., Xie, H., Zou, D., & Hwang, G. J. (2020). Application and theory gaps during the rise of 
Artificial Intelligence in Education.  Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence , 1, 
100002.  
Chowdhury, M., &Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial 
intelligence.  Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -
375. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
313 Copeland, J. (2015).  Artificial intelligence: A philosophical introduction . John Wiley & Sons.  
Crandall, D. J. (2019). Artificial intelligence and manufacturing.  Smart Factories: Issues of 
Information Governance , 10-16. 
Davenport, T., &Kalakota,  R. (2019). The potential for artificial intelligence in healthcare.  Future 
healthcare journal , 6(2), 94.  
Ertel, W. (2018).  Introduction to artificial intelligence . Springer.  
Haenlein, M., & Kaplan, A. (2019). A brief history of artificial intelligence: O n the past, present, 
and future of artificial intelligence.  California management review , 61(4), 5 -14. 
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., &Scharre, P. (2018).  Artificial 
intelligence and international security . Center for  a New American Security.  
Jiang, F., Jiang, Y., Zhi, H., Dong, Y., Li, H., Ma, S., ... & Wang, Y. (2017). Artificial intelligence 
in healthcare: past, present and future.  Stroke and vascular neurology , 2(4). 
Khanzode, K. C. A., &Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of a rtificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
Mohammadi, V., &Minaei, S. (2019). Artificial intelligence in the production process. 
In Engineering tools in the bev erage industry  (pp. 27 -63). Woodhead Publishing.  
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Pan, Y. (2016). Heading toward artificial intelligence 2.0.  Engineering , 2(4), 409 -413. 
Radulov, N. (2019). Artificial i ntelligence and security. Security 4.0.  Security & Future , 3(1), 3 -5. 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Sun, W., Li, C., & Ren, R. (2019, June). Artificial intelligence and  its application in computer 
network technology. In  Journal of Physics: Conference Series  (Vol. 1237, No. 2, p. 
022142). IOP Publishing.  
Timms, M. J. (2016). Letting artificial intelligence in education out of the box: educational cobots 
and smart classrooms.  International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education , 26(2), 
701-712. 
Walsh, T., Levy, N., Bell, G., Elliott, A., Maclaurin, J., Mareels, I., & Wood, F. (2019).  The effective 
and ethical development of artificial intelligence: an oppor tunity to improve our wellbeing . 
Melbourne, Australia: Australian Council of Learned Academies.  
Zhu, D. (2017). Analysis of the application of artificial intelligence in college English 
teaching.  Advances in Intelligent Systems Research , 134, 235 -237. 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
314 THE WORLD OF AI  
 
KAUSHIK TELLAKULA  
Email ID: tellakula.kaushik2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence ? 
[1] Artificial intelligence is the complete knowledge behind the intelligent machines; it is used in 
building up machines which have higher order thinking capacity and work on computer 
programming. It focuses on how to make robots and machines think like humans. [2] since we know 
that intelligence is very essential , inducing it in machines enables that particular entity to work at its 
greater  potential.AI machines can be used to enhance many sectors of life like healthcare, education, 
manufacturing, security etc. And make the world smarter than ever before  
 
Brief History and Growth of Artificial Intelligence  
[3] Just the thought of having a me chanical assistant, centuries ago, led to the current discovery 
process of AI. It was only in the last half century the process of implementation of AI has begun (i.e. 
building up machines which have the capacity to think). In the past many philosophers li ke Rene 
Descartes and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz had different thoughts and imaginations of machines 
which work on intelligence. Even though, at that time Leibniz and Pascal designed the calculating 
machines they never thought that the devices could think. As these thoughts were spreading more, 
people started to dig into it. Even the science fiction writers have used this idea of intelligent 
machines in their writings. For example, L. Frank Baum wrote the Wizard of Oz. In which he took 
the robots as characte rs, which resembled humans. All these made people curious about the world of 
AI. In the early twentieth century development in electronics and the modern computers (which 
were also referred as giant brains) created a good opportunity to build AI machines. A major 
breakthrough in AI development was Turing‘s 1950 seminal paper in the journal ‗Mind‘. The paper 
explained how a computer can be programmed to think intelligently and he also provided the 
Turing‘s test, the next year AI based first program was writt en. [4] And after 5 years (in 1956) 
artificial intelligence, with proper structure and foundation, was introduced by John McCarthy (also 
known as father of AI). The next year, the first general problem solver was successfully tested and 
paved the way for t he development of AI It was when people started to show complete interest 
towards AI. [3] Robots were invented that time, but inducing common knowledge into them became 
a tricky task. In the process of research Isaac Asimov in 1942 gave the three famous la ws of 
robotics. And after the development of AI started, the first autonomous vehicle was created in the 
Stanford AI lab. [4] At the initial stage everyone believed that AI will be doing the work which 
human beings can do, but according to scientists it wa s impossible for this to happen, so after more 
research they came to a conclusion that Artificial intelligence is nothing but making intelligent 
machines which can help humans to complete a given task faster with ease. And now researchers 
and programmers a re working more in bringing AI to its higher potential. [3] And even AI started to 
fall in the eyes of the people of different disciplines (such as, engineering, biology, psychology, 
mathematics, logic.etc), and therefore led to the increase in its applica tions. Now AI started to help 
many fields and enhanced the lifestyle of many.  
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
315 AI in Health Care Appliances  
[5] As we all know healthcare is vital for human life, introducing artificial intelligence in healthcare 
will be extremely helpful. The way it ana lyses the given data and gives suggestions is very accurate. 
It is a very useful tool to increase the efficiency and reduce the cause of damage.  
 [6] The major benefits of artificial intelligence in healthcare sector are it detects any problem 
well in adva nce so that patients can take necessary precautions, it gives risk analysis of a particular 
problem, its accurate and detailed imaging technique helps in better study of the problem, and it also 
reduces the health care costs. It is also used in identifying  and collecting the data about new viruses 
and diseases. It does many jobs from taking the required information from the patient to the end of 
the process. [7] The most important use of AI in healthcare is its ability to manage the data perfectly. 
Since, m any patients admit into hospitals everyday it is very important to manage their data 
properly. It gathers important information related to the patients by analysing their data. It also helps 
in storing a huge amount of data safely. And by making it very ea sy for the people in hospital to 
refer the details of a particular patient. It also does the repetitive jobs like taking X -rays, CT -scans 
and data entry perfectly.  
 It is also provides advanced healthcare treatment by upgrading the treatment tactics, analy zing 
the data to give accurate treatment and monitoring the treatments carefully in order to avoid any 
miscalculations.  
 [8] The learning health systems (LHS) and of AI in medicine have many common points. In 
order to make AI‘s applications more effective there needs to be improvement in data sharing and 
infrastructure, it should work more on giving personalized care, and it  should try to remove 
traditional obstacles that patients face while receiving the treatment.  
 [7] Still there are different processes going on to improve the reasoning capabilities and to 
induce extensive range of medical knowledge in AI machines, which they hope will improve the 
medical field. And save more lives of people.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[9] Over the last few decades, machines with AI technologies have become very important for 
manufacturing and production.AI not only improved produ ction but also the economy of the 
country. In the modern manufacturing, industrial artificial intelligence (IAI) has become the core 
system of smart manufacturing. AI powered manufacturing majorly improved closed -loop 
production chains. Particularly, IAI b ased knowledge enhanced the modern manufacturing process. 
And the advanced properties of AI took the manufacturing to a greater level.  
 [10] AI provides higher efficiency and quality in production. It improves the production and 
makes the manufacturing pro cess quicker, easier and effortless. It also reports the quality of the 
product and makes sure the consistency in production is good. Its environment -friendly service helps 
users in production. The process of manufacturing requires many things such as sens ors, 
interconnections, collaboration, analysis, decision making and control systems. These all 
requirements are well managed by AI and hence removing a huge workload from humans.  
 [11] In this modern world, manufacturing and logistics systems are increasing rapidly because 
of the powerful computing networks. With raising capabilities, this Big Data is being updated and 
analysed deeply. These properties increased the demand of AI and introduced us to a new age called 
smart factory.  
 ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
316 AI in Security a nd Surveillance  
[12] AI has wide range of application in security and surveillance. It helps in providing very good 
security in varies places such as cyber networks, information storage, national defence, and in many 
other confidential areas.  
 [13] The rol e of security and surveillance is very essential in national defence, and therefore AI 
can be very useful in these areas. The critical mission areas such as border security, Domestic 
counter terrorism, protection of critical infrastructures, defending agai nst sudden terrorism and 
emergency preparedness requires a lot of intelligence. And this can be possible with the help of AI. 
It makes sure that all these areas are safe and also gives various types of warnings at emergency 
situations by analysing the data . 
 [14] As there is a lot of progress in this modern world, there arises the necessity to keep 
confidential data safely. Non ethical hackers can get access to personal data and cause threat.  
 That is where AI comes in.  AI can help in providing stronger sec urity, it detects if there is any 
problem and gives alerts well in advance. Therefore by providing a safer environment in the smart 
world.  
 
AI in Education  
[15] AI can be very useful in education in various activities like planning, administration knowledg e 
representation and explanation. Its use in the education can enhance the process of studying.  
  [16] Computer based training (CBT) and computer aided instruction (CAI) were the systems 
used in tutoring via computers. These are the core systems which are used in the smart education.  
 [17] AIED (Artificial Intelligence in Education) includes everything like personalized dialogue 
systems, AI explanatory learning, game based environment, student support chatbots.etc which 
makes the studying process more comfo rtable and easier. The smart environment helps students to 
be educated effectively. AI improves the quality of education and makes studying process fun and 
comfortable. And the most important thing is the application of AI in grading students by their 
performance. AI not only helps student but even teachers and staff. Correcting the exam papers of 
students is a huge task for teachers, their whole time gets into it and they may not be able to focus 
more on improving the interaction between the students. Ther efore, AI in this situation is very 
helpful, it can correct the papers, and it can grade students and make the teachers work simple and 
easier.  
 [16] These systems may be effective but the individual attention given by a physical tutor has its 
own benefits . Anyhow it reduces the work load and makes the education process smoother.  
  
Advantages of AI  
AI is introduced into this world only because of its advantages. Here are some advantages of AI.  
 [18] AI doesn‘t have any emotions. It only works on facts. Wher eas, we humans have a lot of 
emotions which affects us while taking any critical decision. The machines only work what is true 
according to its code and cannot be influenced by any.  
 Humans cannot work continuously 24/7 but the machines can work continuous ly without getting 
tired. The consistency in their work is uniform throughout a given task. They can take up different 
types of task without any difficulty or pressure.  
 Sharing the knowledge between different machines is seamless process. For completing h uge 
work we need help of many people, people who have knowledge about the task, so we have to Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
317 educate them, which is a lengthy process. Whereas, in machines we can just copy the code and make 
the other machines work on the same task.  
 [19] AI is faster th an humans. Any given task is completed very fast by AI.  
 It also processes complex work easily without any difficulty. Human beings can do complex 
work but it is very stressful. Whereas, AI completes it seamlessly and the errors made by it are 
negligible.  
 [20] By using AI in areas where it is dangerous for human beings we can save many lives. 
Example like mining, fuel exploration, defence related areas which are life threatening. We have 
seen many incidents where people lost their lives while working at th ese areas. Therefore, we can 
replace them with robots which do the similar work but this time there would be no risk for human 
life. 
 Not only in industries but also in education, e -commerce, safety and security, social media, etc. 
AI is utilised.  
 Therefore AI has got many advantages and can completely change the future upcoming world  
 
Disadvantages of AI  
AI is not introduced into the world completely because of its disadvantages. Here are the 
disadvantages of AI.  
 [21] AI sometimes can be used in a n inappropriate way in hands of few, which can lead to huge 
problems. We live in a world where there are different kinds of people with different mindsets. What 
may be correct for ones may not be the same for others.  
 We saw many advantages of AI as it ca n replace humans in different areas. But the problem 
here is growth of unemployment. And we can also see the rapid growth in the population these days.  
 Since the machines totally work program based, we have to be very careful because program 
mismatch sometime makes the bots or machines do opposite things which can be dangerous.  
 The younger generation will become lazy because they will totally dependent upon AI and 
forget the importance of living.  
 [22] Equipment required to design these machines are e xpensive. It costs huge amount to create 
and repair these machines. Therefore development in AI didn‘t even start in many regions.  
 [23] AI can be fast but the natural intelligence has better ability to think than AI. Some of the 
decisions cannot be done by AI. AI is the subset of our intelligence, only its mechanism makes it 
quicker.  
 In order to use AI efficiently it has to be explored in more depth.  
 Therefore these are some disadvantages in AI which are to be taken under consideration for 
future workin gs on AI.  
 
Conclusion  
The artificial intelligence has completely changed the world. It has influenced each and every sector 
of the society; from education to healthcare. It made humans work simple and easier. It enhanced the 
lifestyle of different people. And what we are seeing is just the beginning of AI. AI can further be 
used in an unimaginable way; it has a lot of potential. It requires more research and 
experimentations on this field. AI has its own pros and cons, the research should be done 
considerin g all these factors. And according to some assumptions many are stating that in the future 
AI will conquer the whole world. And people will completely depend on AI.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
318  According to me AI should be developed but my only concern is that it will lead to a lot o f 
unemployment, ofcourse people who have invested in and working on it have profit but the ones 
whose jobs are going to be replaced in future will have a lot problem. They will have no work in 
future which cuts off their income source and makes the poor po orer. So I would say Balancing both 
employment and development of AI we have to take the next step.  
 
References  
Bartoletti, I. (2019, June). AI in healthcare: Ethical and privacy challenges. In  Conference on 
Artificial Intelligence in Medicine in Europe  (pp. 7 -10). Springer, Cham.  
Beck, J., Stern, M., & Haugsjaa, E. (1996). Applications of AI in Education.  XRDS: Crossroads, 
The ACM Magazine for Students , 3(1), 11 -15. 
Benko, A., & Lányi, C. S. (2009). History of artificial intelligence. In  Encyclopedia of Information 
Science and Technology, Second Edition  (pp. 1759 -1762). IGI Global.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230.  
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53. 
Chen, H., & Wang, F. Y. (2005). Guest editors' introduction: Artificial intelligence for homeland 
security.  IEEE intelligent systems , 20(5), 12 -16. 
Chien, C.  F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Ding, H., Gao, R. X., Isaksson, A. J., Landers, R. G., Parisini, T., & Yu an, Y. (2020). State of AI -
based monitoring in smart manufacturing and introduction to focused section.  IEEE/ASME 
Transactions on Mechatronics , 25(5), 2143 -2154.  
Holmes, W., Bialik, M., & Fadel, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education.  Boston: Cent er for 
Curriculum Redesign . 
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., & Scharre, P. (2018).  Artificial 
intelligence and international security . Center for a New American Security.  
Kasperbauer, T. J. (2021). Conflicting roles for  humans in learning health systems and AI ‐enabled 
healthcare.  Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice , 27(3), 537 -542. 
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature  Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Libra ry 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?.  
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Nilsson, N. J. (2009).  The quest for artificial intelligence . Cambridge University Press.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
319 Racine, E., Boehlen, W., & Sample, M. (2019, September). Healthcare uses of artificial intelligence: 
Challenges and opportunities for growth. In  Healthcare management forum  (Vol. 32, No. 5, 
pp. 272 -275). Sage CA: Los Angeles, CA: SAGE Publications.  
Srivastava, S., Bis ht, A., & Narayan, N. (2017, January). Safety and security in smart cities using 
artificial intelligence —A review. In  2017 7th International Conference on Cloud 
Computing, Data Science & Engineering -Confluence  (pp. 130 -133). IEEE.  
Strong, A. I. (2016). App lications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6).  
Teng, X. (2019, April). Discussion about artificial intelligence‘s advantages and disadvantages 
compete with natural intelligence. In  Journal of Physics: Conferen ce Series  (Vol. 1187, No. 
3, p. 032083). IOP Publishing.  
Woolf, B. (1991).  AI in Education . University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Department of 
Computer and Information Science.  
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
320 THE “NEW -FUTURE WORLD”DRIVING FORCE  
 
KEERTHANA  M 
 B.Tech. Chemical Engineering  
Email ID:  keerthana.m2021a@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Intoduction  
[1]AI is going to be the future driving energy which is going to control the whole world may be 
harmful or harmless, but it all depends on our hands and how we use it.  
 
What is AI  
[2] It is the branch of computer science that helps in building smart engines into machines. [3] To 
acknowledge human necessities and solve their problems. [4] These do not perform human 
biological functions which is the necessity for these smar t machines.  
 
History of AI  
[5] Warren McCulloch and Walter Pits in 1943 where the first people to give the idea on creating 
artificial neurons. [6] The term Artificial Intelligence was coined by John McCarthy at the 
Dartmouth Conference which happened in t he year 1956. [7] Programming languages like Fortran, 
Lisp, Cobol were invented so the enthusiasm in AI started increasing among the scientists. [8] In 
1966 Joseph Weizenbaum programmed the first chat box ―Eliza‖. [9] Japan created the first 
humanoid robot  named ―Wabot -1‖. [10] From 1974 -1980 many countries stopped funding the AI.  
 
Growth of AI  
[11] In the year 1980 ―Expert system‖ which was programmed for decision making ability. [12] In 
1997 Deep Blue Company created by IBM defeated the world chess champi on Gary Kasparov and 
earns the name of the first computer to defeat human. [13] ―Roomba‖ an AI vacuum cleaner entered 
the household. [14] Companies like Facebook, Twitter started using AI for developing social media 
platforms. [15] Watson created by IBM ha d won Jeopardy, an American quiz show which proved 
that it could understand human language and to think and solve riddles. [16] In the year 2012 
Google had developed ―Google Now‖ to show the results according to the owner or user. [17] In the 
year chatbot ―Eugene Goostman‖ had won a Turing test (a test to check whether AI can think like 
humans and act efficiently ornot). [18]  ―The Project Debater designed by IBM‖ debated extremely 
well with two expert debaters and won. [19] Now the whole world is practicall y running because of 
AI from performing the household chores, paying money, and travelling somewhere.  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[20] AI has been playing a major role in medical field and has made the work for doctors, lab 
technician, other staffs, and the patient‘s life easier and in easy diagnosis. [21] The patients records 
can be saved easily in the hospital‘s data records instead of maintaining a handwritten file which 
may get lost, or data may get damaged at any time. [22]AI delivers the result of t he patient online 
itself most of the time. [23] For example, when we test for covid our result used to appear in the web 
portal. [24] When blood sample is collected in olden days people used to observe it in the 
microscope and sometimes negligence can caus e a great error but nowadays when the blood samples 
are put in certain machines it shows the required result and sometimes DNA report can also be Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
321 generated using the machine. [25]  Many technologies have been developed in which surgeries are 
being performed  by the humanoid robots, it shows photos and images of patient during the operation 
for the doctor to see and operate accordingly(Laser operation).  [26] When MRI, ultrasounds ,CT ,X -
Ray and such scans are done the images and their reports are generated imm ediately so that 
diagnosis can be started quickly without further delay.[27]AI has also improved the health and 
hygiene of doctors and patients as sometimes machines perform the required diagnosis for the 
patient and doctors need not touch the patient unne cessarily to avoid the infection spread from 
doctors to patient or from doctor to patient(for example dialysis ).[28]  Mistakes bound to happen in 
AI but can be rectified or reduced and should be used effectively.[29]Monitors placed near the 
patients displa ys and monitor  their pulse, heart rate ,oxygen level and so on.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Industries  
[30] AI is the key which helps in opening and expanding the manufacturing industries. [31]  AI 
equipped machines have proved to be working efficiently with m inimum or no mistakes.  
[32] Forexample, in cutting the edges, designing with perfection as inputted but humans tend to 
make mistakes in cutting and in designing the required material. [33] Machines do not lose 
concentration and do not need a break like hu mans until the machine is in proper condition and there 
is continuous power supply. [34] It is said to reduce the deaths or injuries when designing without 
proper safety measures. [35] Forexample, in blast furnace if a human does the work without proper 
safety equipment itcan poses a great threat to his life but if a machine does it at least a human life 
can be saved. [36] But sometimes if these heavy machines get damaged either the person who is 
operating it may either get heavy injury due to short circuit  or the machine might fall on the person 
and the person might get killed or a mass number of people can get killed due to this. [37] The 
machines may cost high, requires high maintenance, consumes a lot of energy due to which the 
natural energy resources l ike coal are getting depleted at a faster rate. [38] This may cut the labour 
cost and the expenses which should be satisfied by the company (like health expenses and so on). 
[39] Machines do not demand hike in money or do not protest for any reason. [40] M achines have 
improved the hygiene in food industries where machines do the packing, assembling, picking of raw 
items and human hand need not touch the food items and to check the quality and amount of 
chemicals added and if the food is harmful or not. [41]  The machines in various industries have 
helped in picking and checking of quality of raw materials, cleaning them which humans cannot do 
creating them into different items in a short period of time than humans who take a long time and 
work will also not b e hundred percent efficient. [42] Machines have also been developed to check 
the quality of the product.  
 
AI in Security and Services  
[43]AI has shaped the security services to increase the security of the people around with  
new technology. [44] Security surveillance cameras have been installed almost everywhere  
which captures images and videos and stores it in the computer systems for a long time.  
[45] Different types of cameras are available which can be fitted anywhere to see the criminal 
activities. [46] Fingerprint and face recognition systems have been equipped in the phones, watches, 
computer systems for their unique identification (as all humans have different thumb impression and 
iris). [47] Passwords, pin, and pattern have equipped in the phones  (though less safe than face and 
fingerprint recognition) to keep our phones, computer systems, bankdetails, social platform details ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
322 and extra safe and others do not access the information. [48] Computer systems have antivirus 
softwares which help in prote cting against the virus, hackers, stalkers, malicious software who plan 
to damage our files, steal confidential details and so on from our systems. [49] Many softwares have 
been developed to track our phones, for women safety, theft safetyand OTP if we wan t to login into 
some websites which contain confidentialinformation. [50] Biometric and personal information of 
theircitizens have been recorded in the systems by the government of many countries as paper 
records can get erased and cannot be referred easil y and check on illegal migration or any terrorist 
entry. [51] Drones have been employed to check illegal occupation or entry. [52]AI equipped 
bombing machines like bomb dropper, targeting the enemy and so on. [53] The future of security 
depends on AI. [54]  A terrorist or a wrongdoer might try to hack our information to steal money and 
our credential information or steal national security and military information to attack our country so 
it depends on us on how we store our information carefully and instal a ntivirus softwares and to stop 
sharing our personal information to others .  
 
AI in Education  
[55] AI has a great importance in the field of education. [56] It helps in visualisation and gives live 
experience of concepts through animation and many tools whi ch cannot be experienced when drawn 
on black board. [57] Helps in distance learning programs for people who cannot attend live 
classes.[58] Forexample,Vedantu, Byjus, Udemy and so on which give coaching to students so that 
they can sit at home, andthis sav es time that takes for travelling or can attend during theirfree time. 
[59]AI has also helped in performing calculations, giving correct and quick values for some 
laboratory experiments which are difficult for humans to calculate and has saved a lot of tim e. 
[60] Many machines have been installed in schools to teach students computer programming and get 
hands on fresh experience before practically applying it. [61] Classes through AI can increase 
laziness and lacks liveliness.[62] AI has played a major role  during the covid times to connect the 
student and teachers and continue their classes even though they couldn‘t physically. [63] Students 
will free to cheat as there is no one administer them physically. [64] Students need physical 
experience of handing t hings and would suffer if they get to do inphysically as physical knowledge 
is needed than AI knowledge. [65] In near future AI will replace the traditional notebook system 
with digital notebooks.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[66] AI is used in various fields for pro blem solving and decision making with speed and 
efficiency.[67] Doesn‘t perform human biological functions so can efficiently work without break 
and doesn‘t deteriorate due to health issues.  [68] Can be used in places where humans cannot reach 
because thei r working conditions doesn‘t get disturbed  by climatic changes and do not need any 
food or other living essentials to survive.  [69] Is widely used in internet search engines.  [70] Can 
perform tasks which cannot be done by humans for example NASA had launch ed a car size AI 
machine from Cape Canaveral on mars in the year 2011.  [71] AI has played a major role during the 
covid 19 for checking the availability of bed, vaccine, information on number  of people infected by 
covid near our area or in our country and getting information whether we have been infected by the 
virus or not.  [72] It has helped the students and teachers across the world to conduct and attend 
classes through AI  (for example google meet and so on) when face to face classes weren‘t 
happening.  [73] In offline classes also students are able to visualize and understand a  concept Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
323 through animation which cannot be explained by drawing on the black board.  [74] Many software 
applications have been developed to perform lab activities instead of going to  lab physically.  [75] AI 
has also helped in the field of health and medicine where AI inputted machines are performing 
operations and helps in creating image and video during laparoscopic operations and create images 
and analysing  a report during scans and  MRI‘s.[]Doesn‘t perform any human errors or does minimal 
errors.  [76] Many homes these days are equipped with AI machines that automatically performs the 
household chores like switching on the lights and so on with minimal usage of energy.  [77] Many 
peopl e have watches that calculate their daily workout routine, set alarms, can detect calls and 
messages, that is having all the information in their fingertips instead of taking their phones or 
laptops and checking information.  [78] AI is used in food manufac turing industries to check the 
quality of food and prepare food without human contact with safety measures.  [79] AI is used in 
automation industries to load and unload heavy  items ,check the quality and ensures human safety as 
back in olden days many peopl e had  been injured or lost their lives by performing tasks with heavy 
items.  [80] AI is used in war field to detect the safety measures during war, identify illegal entry of 
people from foreign countries, occupying the country‘s area by the enemy, in attac king the  enemy 
during the war.[81]AI is used in security systems where images and videos are being captured by 
CCTV cameras and displaying in the computer screen and the cameras are available in many forms 
so that can be hidden anywhere and capture images and videos.  [82] AI is used in wildlife areas to 
check on poaching of animals and capture their day to day activities and showcase them to  
the normal people for them to  understand the necessities and  living conditions of wildlife animals.  
[83] AI has help ed in connecting people from far through video calls and social media sites.[84]The 
owners of manufacturing industries need not invest much money on labourers for their medical 
expenses and satisfying their needs like building schools and collages for thei r children,  hospitals, 
houses and so on.  [85] Little amount of  electricity, maintenance for a regular period and one time 
investment is enough. [86] Machines cannot be bribed to do criminal activities against the owner. 
[87] Nowadays people can call an aut o or taxi sitting at home (for example Uber, Ola) and transfer 
money to the driver. [88] We can transfer money online or scan and pay or pay through credit card 
instead of giving cash or travelling to give the money which is a risky task as money may be st olen 
or something dangerous may happen to the owner. [89]  AI driven vehicles using electricity or solar 
light is under research to reduce the greenhouseeffect. [90] Maps on phones have made people lives 
easier as they can easily drive to the place they do not know and do not get lost most of the times. 
[91] It has helped students in seeing their results of their exams sitting in the home instead of going 
to the respective centre and checkingthe result.  
 
Disadvantages of AI  
[92] Fears have been there that AI  can replace humans in all fields and unemployment will increase. 
[93] Many people who haven‘t been provided with good education depend in these jobs like 
working as a maid, getting labour jobs in factories and so on.  [94] For example people get job as 
maid in the household but the owners stop them because they have machines to do the work more 
efficiently at a cheaper cost due to which the maids family  might be starving.  [95] Many people 
have lost jobs in the manufacturing sector as machines do their work efficiently and without any 
tiredness and cuts the labour cost for the owner.  [96] Even people with good education are also on 
verge of losing job as AI can replace them also.  [97] During medical operations what if the machine 
suddenly stop working at firs t it puts the patient‘s life at risk and this brings a disgrace and legal ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
324 issues  to both the doctor and hospital.  [98] In automation industries the whole manufacturing will 
stop if machines stop working and this create loss to the owner and if machines are  not maintained 
properly the system may collapse and lead to many losses of life.  [99] Lazinesswillstart increasing 
among humans as they have the thought that machines are there to perform the operations. [100] If 
machines stop working, this increases the workload [101] Makes decision based on facts inputted 
and doesn‘t think differently or logically. [102] If controlled by wrong people can create a huge 
destruction for humans. [103]  AI can display our personal details to some hacker or a wrong person 
if no t secured properly. [104] Using our personal information many people can steal money or 
valuable information, use this information to take many advantages from us or cyber bully or stalk 
our activities. [105] This may lead to suicides especially in teenage rs which are increasing day by 
day and brings disgrace to people among society. [106] Many people develop inferiority complex 
about their looks and either start changing them or start to hate themselves for their looks. [107] The 
rudeness among children wi ll increase and many surveys show that many teenagers consider 
themselves cool if they cyber bully others. [108] Children these days are not going out to play but 
are sitting at home and are getting addicted to harmful mobile games and do not get a chance to 
mingle with different kinds of people and learn new information. [109] The connect with the family 
and friends as been lost as the household members are always on their electronic gadgets and are 
less worried about their surrounds due to which many peop le are not able to open up with their 
parents and teenagers are indulging into wrong activities like gets addicted to phones instead of 
concentrating on studies and may other practices like drugs or get into depression and do something 
harmful and by the t ime their parents or relatives find out about this it would be too late to rectify 
their mistakes.  [110]Machines can get damaged easily  due to the prevailing climatic conditions like 
machine parts can get ruptured due to oxidation and forming layer by the metal. [111] Requires high 
maintenance and once bought need high energy supply especially in the manufacturing industries 
due to which lots of current are used and many machines needs to bereplaced after a short period of 
time and needs constant servicing of products. [112] Due to increase in machines the elements like 
coal (used to supply energy), iron, magnesium, silicon (these metals are used in manufacturing the 
machines) and so on are getting depleted at a faster rate.[113] The extensive use of  machine s have 
led to different kinds of pollution like sound pollution which results in loss of hearing, air 
pollution(affects our breathing ) and recently Delhi has been suffering a lot due to air pollution  as 
people are not able to come out due to smog which bl ocks their visibility, water pollution(chemicals 
in water),many animals have died and are on the verge of extinction(example in the  water of Ganges 
the Gangetic dolphins are in the verge of extinction )and so on as machines do not think about the 
wellbeing  of the people and are and to do the job as programmed.  [114]  Before also pollution used 
to be there but not to this extent.  [115]  Many people are locked into AI which are leading to health 
issues like eye irritation, obesity and so on .  [116]  It lacks the  experience and knowledge which we 
gain through offline mode as even to make machines we physical experience.  
 
Conclusion  
[117]  In my opinion AI is going to make our work easier and apparently safer and is going to decide 
and shape our near future.  [118]  There is no doubt in that but i t depends on how safe we use it .  
[119]  We should be thoughtful and not share our personal information to others(like colleagues, 
friends or people who spam us by contacting us).  [120]  AI should be used in such a way that it 
doesn‘t take away their jobs from  many people.  [121] Unemployment is bound to happen but we Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
325 should take steps to reduce it or replace their job in some other firm where they know how to work.  
[122]  AI is going to be our masters(without them we won‘t be abl e to do anything) but it should be 
controlled by wrong people then it would create a huge destruction to the mankind.  [123] In near 
future AI would be driving us to the places controlling our finances and our personal details and if 
we want rental cars or maybe even helicopters  would come to our place to pick us up.  [124]  AI has 
created hygiene and safety for labourers and also to people who use it.  [125]  It has also created 
many data scientists and practically worlds three -fourth population knows how to ha ndle a computer 
or phone and how to use it.  [126]  It all depends on how efficiently we use it to make our world 
better a better place for all.  
 
References  
Barbezat, G., & Wuest, G. (1998). Advantages for automotive industry of plasma spray coating of 
Ai–Si cast alloy cylinder bores.  Surface engineering , 14(2), 113 -116. 
Beck, J., Stern, M., & Haugsjaa, E. (1996). Applications of AI in Education.  XRDS: Crossroads, 
The ACM Magazine for Students , 3(1), 11 -15. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53. 
Bullers, W. I., Nof, S. Y., & Whinston, A. B. (1980). Artificial intelligence in manufacturing 
planning and control.  AIIE transactions , 12(4), 351 -363. 
Chen, H., & Wang, F. Y. (2005). Guest editors' introduction: Artificial intelligence for homeland 
security.  IEEE intelligent systems , 20(5), 12 -16. 
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence.  
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportatio n issues , 6(3), 360 -375. 
Das, S. K., Adhikary, G. N., Islam, M. N., Paul, B. K., & Das, G. G. (2004). Artificial insemination 
(AI) by raw semen: Its advantages and disadvantages in Deshi chicken (Gallus 
domesticus).  International Journal of Poultry Science , 3(10), 662 -663. 
Davenport, T., & Kalakota, R. (2019). The potential for artificial intelligence in healthcare.  Future 
healthcare journal , 6(2), 94.  
Filippetti, F., Franceschini, G., Tassoni, C., & Vas, P. (2000). Recent developments of induction 
motor dr ives fault diagnosis using AI techniques.  IEEE transactions on industrial 
electronics , 47(5), 994 -1004.  
Haenlein, M., & Kaplan, A. (2019). A brief history of artificial intelligence: On the past, present, 
and future of artificial intelligence.  California m anagement review , 61(4), 5 -14. 
Idris, N. B., & Shanmugam, B. (2005, December). Artificial intelligence techniques applied to 
intrusion detection. In  2005 Annual IEEE India Conference -Indicon  (pp. 52 -55). IEEE.  
Jiang, F., Jiang, Y., Zhi, H., Dong, Y., Li, H ., Ma, S., ... & Wang, Y. (2017). Artificial intelligence 
in healthcare: past, present and future.  Stroke and vascular neurology , 2(4). 
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning : A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Lee, J., Davari, H., Singh, J., & Pandhare, V. (2018). Industrial Artificial Intelligence for industry 
4.0-based manufacturing systems.  Manufacturing letters , 18, 20-23. 
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96. ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
326 Luckin, R., Holmes, W.,  Griffiths, M., & Forcier, L. B. (2016). Intelligence unleashed: An argument 
for AI in education.  
McCarthy, J. (1998). What is artificial intelligence?  
Medvedev, S. P., Shevchenko, A. I., & Zakian, S. M. (2010). Induced pluripotent stem cells: 
problems and  advantages when applying them in regenerative medicine.  Acta Naturae 
(англоязычная версия) , 2(2 (5)).  
Newell, A. (1982).  Intellectual issues in the history of artificial intelligence . CARNEGIE -MELLON 
UNIV PITTSBURGH PA DEPT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE.  
Nilsson, N . J. (2009).  The quest for artificial intelligence . Cambridge University Press.  
Osipov, S. S., & Ulimova, N. V. (2013). ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF 
AI. SCIENCE AND WORLD , 77. 
Pollack, I. P., Quigley, H. A., & Harbin, T. S. (1976). The Ocusert pilocarpi ne system: advantages 
and disadvantages.  Southern medical journal , 69(10), 1296 -1298.  
Russell, S., & Norvig, P. (2002). Artificial intelligence: a modern approach.  
Waisi, M. (2020). Advantages and disadvantages of aI -based trading and investing versus trad itional 
methods.  
Weibelzahl, S., & Weber, G. (2002). Advantages, opportunities and limits of empirical evaluations: 
Evaluating adaptive systems.  KI, 16(3), 17 -20. 
Woolf, B. (1991).  AI in Education . University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Department of 
Comp uter and Information Science.  
Yampolskiy, R. V., & Spellchecker, M. S. (2016). Artificial intelligence safety and cybersecurity: A 
timeline of AI failures.  arXiv preprint arXiv:1610.07997 . 
Yu, K. H., Beam, A. L., & Kohane, I. S. (2018). Artificial intellig ence in healthcare.  Nature 
biomedical engineering , 2(10), 719 -731. 
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
327 MORDEN UNIVERSE OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
DEVANSH TAMAKUWALA  
B.Tech Chemical Engineering  
Email ID: devanshdeepak.tamak2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Origin of AI   
[1] The Turing test is a test  of a machine's ability to exhibit intelligent behaviour. The test was 
introduced by ALAN TURING in his 1950 paper Computing Machinery and Intelligence. The 
original question behind this test was ―Can machines think? ―.  
 
What is Artiﬁcial Intelligence ?  
[2] It is the science and engineering of making intelligent machines, especially intelligent computer 
programs. It is related to the similar task of using computers to understand human intelligence, but 
AI does not have to conﬁne itself to methods that are b iologically observable.  
 AI researchers are trying to create a computer which thinks.  
 [3] Artificial intelligence (AI) is defined as intelligence exhibited by an artificial entity to solve 
complex problems and such a system is generally assumed to be a co mputer or machine.  
 Artificial Intelligence is an integration of computer science and physiology Intelligence in 
simple language is the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world.  
 
History of AI  
[3] The actual history is rather messy, but it tends to work out as follows. In the 1950s, a visionary 
mathematician named Norbert Wiener was testing a version of the Turing machine with a chess 
program.  
 The history of artificial intelligence is quite messy, but its idea was started by Alan Tur ing. He 
thought ―that what if computers could think and could figure out next step in a problem?‖.  
 His theory was that if a human can‘t differentiate if he/she is talking to a human or a computer. 
That test is called Turing‘s test. A software is called in telligent agent if it passes the test.  
 AI was born when John McCarthy termed it in 1956.  
 [4] During World War 2 Alan Turing helped in breaking German Enigma machine by worked at 
Bletchley Park.  
 Newell and Simon invented the idea of solving logical probl ems through programming codes in 
1957, who they named as GPS.  
 John McCarthy invented a programming Language called LISP in 1958.  
 In most recent decade AI is advanced in: - machine learning, artificial life, planning, computer 
version, playing games,   
 
Growth of AI  
[5] There are mainly two themes in growth of AI.  
 Firstly, from the invention of spinning jenny to steam engine to electricity and then to computer 
chips. The key feature of economic growth is the process in development of machine production.  
 Secondly, the advancement in AI may be controlled by Baumol‘s ―cost disease‖. He observed 
that the growth of AI was happening rapidly and even today, the shares of GDP decline while those 
sectors with relatively slow production.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
328  [6] The important task in today‘s time is to make a sustainable reproduction of the capitalist 
economy. But in today‘s time of Great Recession the economy is always fundamentally instability. 
[7] The combination of state planning and a free market is the only way out of this deadlo ck. Due to 
lack of computer capabilities the planning was impossible to organize. But in today‘s world with 
sharp computer performance it is possible.  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[8] There are two subtypes in AI in medicine : - Virtual and Physical  
 The vi rtual part covers all the digital works such as electronic health record system, managing 
medical records.  
 The physical part covers with assisting robots in surgeries, elderly care and intelligent 
prostheses for handicapped people.  
 [9] Doing computative task such as X -Rays, CT scans, Analysing Test and data entry can be 
done by robots more accurately and faster. Cardiology and Radiology are two fields where the 
amount of data to examine is too much and very much intense. In future, only in complicated cas es 
only human supervision is required in these two fields.  
In recent progress of AI in medicine it helps in following procedures: -  
 Cardiology  -Atrial Fibrillation  
    -Cardiovascular Risk  
 2) Pulmonary Medicine  
 3) Endocrinology  
 4) Nephrology  
 5) Gastroenterology  
 6) Neurology -Epilepsy  
 -Tremor Assessment  
 
Conclusion  
[10] All the progress of AI happened is great but it will not replace the doctors in anytime soon.  
 
AI in Manufacturing  
[11] AI is a universal technology which is present in all sectors including manufacturing and 
production.  
 In this new era in advancement of AI intelligent manufacturing is done by the companies. In this 
intelligent manufacturing all production, management, integration, testing, system engineering 
technology and product related technology is integrated with the whole system.  
 The optimization of different aspect of manufacturing includes 3 element and 5 flows are all 
programmed by AI for best cost -efficiency, high quality and userfriendly equipment.  
 Elements: - organization, management and equipment and technology  
 Flows: - information, logistics, capital, knowledge and service  
 [12] There are many advantages of AI in Manufacturing  
1. Quality inspection: - AI can easily do many inspection task in less time, high efficiency and 
more accurately from a human.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
329 2. Advanced robotics: - to use AI in manufacturing it must be hand -build to perform a specific 
task but once after making 1 robot we can mass produce it then that task can be done in less 
time with almost zero effor t. 
3. Transportation: - In today‘s world automatic driving cars are already been made so it can 
help a manufacturer to reduce labour cost and it will reduce the chances of accidents.  
 
AI in Security and SURVEILLANCE  
1) Cyber Crime  
 [13]AI helps a company to be safe from online fraud by using neural network which helps in 
detection of spam, computer worms, malware classification. In anti -virus technology different 
techniques of AI is used such as Data mining and AISs  
2) Troll bot dete ction and blocking  
 [14] In a research paper it is estimated that there are around 9% -15% of accounts on twitter are 
bots which are increasing from time to time. Botmeter API is a machine learning models which 
offers an AI driven approach which can detect that a account is a bots or a person. If it finds a bot 
account then it will automatically remove it from the platform.  
 
AI in Education  
[15] Mainly the work of AI is heavily associated with computer but as we read more and more 
articles, particularly in s ector of education it is defined in two parts. The two parts are a field and a 
theory. In the field of study, AI is defined as the study area of computer science which focus on 
solving different cognitive problem. In the field of theory, AI solves theoreti cal framework with the 
guidance of CS and the help of humans.  
 In the new era machine learning and AI are widely applied in smart phones, whose target is to 
improve the quality of computers and open new possibilities for the new generation such as face 
recognition, speech learning, language translation and VR.  
 Let‘s talk about virtual reality (VR), it connects every student around the world with the help of 
AI, beyond the learning space. It also helps in online learning as it, turn instructor‘ s speech int o text 
know as transcription.  
 Due to the advancement in AI burden on instructor is becoming less as AI can revaluate papers, 
assignments, essay and also take attendance of how many students are present in class and how 
many of that are actually paying att ention. Due to AI the instructors can focus on more important 
things such as student performance. AI can better analysis student data which would help the 
instructors to how to help each student in different ways and also with the help of AI the system can  
prevent the students from cheating and doing plagiarism in their homework, test and exams.  
Advantages  
[16]1) Due to AI a student can learn anything, anywhere and at on any time on this planet.  
 2)A person can find hundred of this online but because of AI that person can also find and learn 
topics related to that product he/she initially searched for.  
Disadvantages  
[17]1) Due to weather there may be network issue  
 2)Students can easily find their homework answer on the web  
 3)Rural areas does not have net connections.  
 ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
330 Advantages of AI  
[18]AI helps in almost every aspect of the work as it is cost effective, reliability and permanency.  
It is problem solving speed is also good. It can be used in many diverse field such as manufacturing, 
medicine, education, engineering and also be used in decision making. As its one of the most useful 
application is search engines. AI also prevents from knowledge from being lost. It can also develop 
learning capability that is learning from real world failure and success whic h is know as 
―reinforcement learning‖ which would give people advantage on what to when a situation is 
presented in front of them.  
 Now days AI is also used in transportation system, and many specific research have been 
provided that it is useful in transp ortation. Currently AI is being used in predicting traffic condition, 
reporting traffic accidents, it also used in traffic lights and sensor. AI can also be used in security 
breaches, and also in management and development of automatic response and control  panels.  
 [19] Its major advantage is that it works on a program code rather than emotion so almost every 
time it gives prefect and precise answer to every question every asked. Due to AI spreading of 
information is so much easier and it give an answer to  a question whenever we want to.  
 [20]AI helps a company to be safe from online fraud by using neural network which helps in 
detection of spam, computer worms, malware classification. In anti -virus technology different 
techniques of AI is used such as Data  mining and AISs  
 [21] It also in medical field by doing computative task such as X -Rays, CT scans, Analysing 
Test and data entry can be done by robots more accurately and faster. Cardiology and Radiology are 
two fields where the amount of data to examine is too much and very much intense. In future, only 
in complicated cases only human supervision would be required.  
 [22] Its overall advantages are work done in a short amount of time, it has more efficiency, can 
do various function at the same time and its  success ratio is high  
 [17] Some more uses of AI : - 
 It can do difficult work in short amount of time  
 It can do various task at the same time  
 It requires less space  
 It can discover unexplored things, i.e. outer space  
 
Disadvantages of AI  
[18] However AI also has some disadvantages as it is such a broad network an Sd everyone has 
access to most of the things. As it was also mentioned by Van Zuylen in his article that he 
mentioned AI as a black box and it's merely an attempt between input an d output to establish a 
relationship. AI has advanced in automation but nevertheless it is no exception, with pace we are 
going now in future all vehicles will be automatic and if an automatic vehicle is involved in a 
accident then who would be held respon sible for that crash?  
 [19] For most of the time it can't explain the logic and reasoning used to make a decision. If it 
does some malfunction due to a virus or anything else we would not notice it until some major 
blowback hap pens. It can be used for fr aud and cybercrime.  
 [22] Because of AI many things are affected some in good way but some in bad way such as due 
to AI human jobs are affected, person dependency on technology is increased, as the generation 
moves on it has answer on their fingertipes and  they become lazy.AI is a genetic algorithm, ant 
colony optimization and they never guaranty to reach the optimal solution. It also has the inability to 
do quickly sensitivity analysis and it‘s hard to find different methods for same problem in calculus.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
331  [17] To increase the development of AI it needs tons of resources as many of the equipment are 
expensive. It cannot create bond with other machines as humans so it has poor team management. It 
can only do task which they are designed to do if there is slit e change in task we have to code it 
again.  
 
Conclusion  
After reading many reports and research about artificial intelligence, in my opinion it‘s for sure that 
AI will be the future of upcoming generation. Now day AI is present in most of the upcoming and 
advance fields. AI is able to some pretty extraordinary things now days only so in future AI would 
be able to almost anything with little bit to human supervision. It‘s not that far away from now that 
AI will be able to make new and better version of thems elves, so if we continue at this pace there 
will be only two outcome as I see. 1) AI will advance in a limited rate and it will help humanity in a 
good way 2) If AI advance at a much faster at first it will help humanity but as the time passes out 
AI will develop it‘s brain in such a manner that it will think about itself first which might not be 
good for humanity.  
 
References  
Aghion, P., Jones, B. F., & Jones, C. I. (2019).  9. Artificial Intelligence and Economic Growth  (pp. 
237-290). University of Chicago  Press.  
AI in Healthcare by academia.edu  
Amisha, P. M., Pathania, M., & Rathaur, V. K. (2019). Overview of artificial intelligence in 
medicine.  Journal of family medicine and primary care,  8(7), 2328  
Arkorful, V., & Abaidoo, N. (2015). The role of e -learni ng, advantages and disadvantages of its 
adoption in higher education. International Journal of Instructional Technology and 
Distance Learning, 12(1), 29 -42. 
Benko, A., & Lányi, C. S. (2009). History of artificial intelligence. In  Encyclopedia of Informatio n 
Science and Technology, Second Edition  (pp. 1759 -1762). IGI Global.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230. 
Briganti, G., & Le Moine, O. (2020). Artificial intelligence in medicine: today and 
tomorrow.  Frontiers in medicine,  7, 27.  
By Michael C. Horowitz, Gregory C. Allen, Edoardo Saravalle, Anthony Cho, Kara Frederick, and 
Paul Scharre  
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). A rtificial intelligence in education: A review. Ieee Access, 8, 
75264 -75278.  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues, 6(3), 360 -375. 
Coppin, B. (2004).  Artificial intelligence illuminated. Jones & Bartlett Learning.  
Crandall, D. J. (2019). Artificial intelligence and manufacturing.  Smart Factories: Issues of 
Information Governance, 10 -16. 
Economic Report of the President 2012. P. 373, 3 76. 
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review. International Journal of Library & 
Information Science (IJLIS), 9(1), 3.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
332 Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu , X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering,  18(1), 86 -96. 
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?.  
Russell, S., &  Norvig, P. (2002). Artificial intelligence: a modern approach.  
Siddiqui, M. Z., Yadav, S., & Husain, M. S. (2018). Application of artificial intelligence in fighting 
against cyber crimes: A REVIEW.  International Journal of Advanced Research in Computer 
Science,  9(2).  
Statistical Abstract of the United States 2004 -2005, p. 853.  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016], 5(6).  
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
33 ARTIFICIAL INTEL LIGENCE: THE INESCAPABLE  
 
ANANYA PRIYADARSHINI  
B.Tech  Computer Science  
Email ID: ananya.priyadarshini2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence ? 
[1] It can be outlined as the analysis of mental and psychological abilities by using various 
computational patterns and sequences. The term ―intelligence‖ in this field can be very deceptive. 
For instance, we usually apply this word when we want to descri be someone displaying unusual 
inventiveness and mind -blowing skills. This results in giving the impression that artificial 
intelligence is a reliable method for generating loads of clever ideas and insights but in reality, AI 
revolves around the basic idea  of duplicating the physiological and mental abilities of the ―ordinary‖ 
people. [2] Artificial Intelligence can also be defined as the science of creating sophisticated 
machines and devices as well as various computerised programmes to analyse human intel ligence. It 
doesn‘t routinely restrict itself to systems of biological significance. Human intelligence does not 
necessarily have to be about manipulating human intelligence. Its more about using what we know 
to publicly create something that would help so lve the practical problems that the world presents us 
with. Although the ultimate aim of artificial intelligence is to create devices that have human -level 
intelligence, some might think that this practice isimmoral and indecent.  
 
History of AI  
[3] The initial stages of artificial intelligence are connected to philosophy, creative imagination and 
fiction. The invention made in the early ages related to various fields of engineering have influenced 
the creation of AI.  Many philosophers have circulated the  idea that the meaning of what it is to be 
human can be evaluated by using intelligent machines. In various science fiction stories, writers 
have used the concept of advancing technologies to develop fantasies of their own that allows us to 
think about our  own human character. Artificially created characters like robots, mechanical dolls 
and animals, Mary Shelly‘s Frankenstein and many other artificially made things have always 
grabbed the public‘s attention. In the seventeenth century, these dolls were act ually based on the 
clockwork mechanisms. In the twentieth century, the crowd saw the several inventions in the 
electronics field and modern computers were recognised post World War -II. In the 1940s these 
computers were known as the ―giant brains‖ owing to the fact that they had a brilliant calculating 
power. In the 1950s, Allen Newell, Herb Simon and J. Clifford Shaw wrote programs that were 
quite ahead of their time and were able to give proof for various logic theorems. Knowledge -based 
systems came into v iew around the 1960s and 1970s. The explanation of the logical proof of the 
Dendral program was presented by Ira Goldstein and Seymour Papert and was said to be a 
―paradigm shift‖ in the field of knowledge -based systems. ‗Computers and Thoughts‘ was the fi rst 
book that had all the collected information about working AI programmes and was written by 
Edward Feigenbaum and Julian Feldman in 1963.[4] Around 1490, Leonardo da Vinci had mapped 
and designed a humanlike robot which had been in the form of a medieva l knight. This form was 
able to do the basic movements like moving its jaw, arms and head as well sit up. In 1854, George 
Boole had published a book in which he describes the Boolean Algebra. In this, he considered that 0 
would stand for falsehood  and 1 wo uld stand for truth . This Boolean Algebra has contributed to the ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
34 innovation of telephone switching circuits as well as computers.Vaucanson‘s duck in 1844 was an 
extraordinary engineering gadget which was assigned the function of eating, drinking and digest ing. 
He called it the Automaton. Unfortunately, the original version of it was burnt in a museum but 
several copies of it were made beforehand.  
 
Growth of AI  
[5] AI has been in progress for over 200 years and it has been the key aspect of economic 
develo pment since the Industrial Revolution. Through the years, the common people have seen the 
spinning jenny, the steam engine, production of electricity and development of computer chips. 
Looking over these past years we can say that the economic growth has b een significantlypowered 
by automation. During the Industrial Revolution, industrial and production processes used steam to 
automate their machines and then the use of electricity was observed. This process was then 
progressed by using transistors, semicon ductors and relays. The current world now sees MRI 
machines, computerized automobile machines and self -driving vehicles. [6] Since the 1970s, 
expansion of AI has taken place into various research fields, machine learning, and intelligent 
control. The rapid  advancement and growth of AI is boosted by the research and by IT resources. 
Since the Internet and the online world is experiencing a rising population of users, the society saw 
the emergence of sensors, e -commerce development and the steady advancement of the information 
community. This has led to a new phase and an evolutionary stage termed as AI 2.0. As demands 
made by the society keep on increasing and changing, there have been respective modifications 
made in the AI research especially since many fie lds of constant activity require AI development. 
The idea of AI is being used to produce new gadgets and idea that will be useful in the present as 
well as in the future.  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[7] The fast -developing sensing techniques as well as many organic electronics have the most 
splendid properties such as fantastic flexibility, affordability, and many other identities. Their 
contribution to the development of pressure sensors is what makes them so significant in the modern 
world. A splendid a pplication of pressure sensors is mobile biomonitoring. The pressure sensors 
made of flexible organic material is the reason why many applications of it have been appearing. 
Since pressure sensors have been doing so well in the past few decades, they have also been used in 
electronical devices as well. E -skin which have been improved and worked on are used in artificially 
intelligent systems. It‘s a challenge to create pressure sensors which have dependable sensitivity and 
stability but these pressure senso rs have proved to be a major part of future electronics. [8] Human 
life has strengthened to a great extent with the increasing development in AI. Many life -threatening 
diseases such as cancer and diabetes have been detected, cured and prevented using techn ology 
developed by artificial intelligence. They assist in finding right treatments and allow a physician to 
make the efficient decision to provide suitable care to patients. It also provides some relief to 
doctors as they don‘t have to push in information  into their brains as they had in the early years. As 
the excellence of AI increases by time, so does the quality of service that is given to the patients. 
The advanced arithmetical algorithm that is used in AI allows doctors to give a better and faster 
diagnosis. The time that is taken to discover drugs used for treatment has decreased as AI supports 
the discovery of new compounds in a much cheaper, faster and safer way. These days, surgical 
procedures have been facilitated by introducing computer -assisted  surgery or robot -assisted surgery. 
In this, the surgeon or doctor uses the computer to control the robotic arms which uses manipulators Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
35 and end -effectors to perform the actual surgery on the patient. [9] AI has shown some potential and 
innovative applicat ions in the field of medicine and healthcare.The reason why AI becomes more 
superior than actual human surgeons and doctors is because nowadays, huge sets of data are required 
for a patient. So, it is safe to say that AI can help doctors to in productive d ecision making as well as 
necessary personalized medicines. However, in the long run, overdependence on AI carries severe 
risks. The critical thinking and experience of an actual human being may be ignored at times but in 
reality, the critical reasoning of  a human is required at all times especially when the patient‘s life is 
at risk. In the 1980s, a system of AI called ‗expert systems‘ was introduced and was highly 
promoted in Japan by the government. Although this form had not produced any economical 
breakthrough, key developments were made and the AI research benefited from this. More efficient 
image recognition was observed when Convolutional Neural Networks were equipped with labelled 
datasets. When Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple and Microsoft (GAFAM) made heavy 
investments in the field of healthcare, the clinical studies have been more accurate than the 
‗classical‘ clinical studies. Virtual software has allowed professionals to get a better understanding 
of the patient‘s condition before moving ahead w hich allows them to give proper treatment 
accordingly. Intra -oral scanners, which use software designed by various machine learning types, 
are used to see two dental images side by side. Artificial intelligence has been used for the transition 
of 2D to 3D images which allows the professionals perform their task with much more efficiency 
and accuracy.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[10] Advancement in manufacture and production takes place every day. To keep up with this 
advancement, new mechanisms have come into the picture. This new era sees the collaboration of 
manufacture with new AI technologies. The fusion of AI information and  data with the physical 
world has led to a new evolutionary stage: AI 2.0. Artificial intelligence allows the development of 
models and architecture in the field of intelligent manufacturing. Intelligent manufacturing can be 
referred to the integration of new technology as well as intelligent information and science with the 
system of production. [11] The Industry 4.0 has urged the concept of smart manufacturing to be the 
industrial revolution which has led to the considerable expansion of the global econom y. The 
gradual shift from digital manufacturing to intelligent manufacturing has started in several 
enterprises. In the present time, AI based technologies have become the foundation of intelligent 
manufacturing. Algorithms are used to manufacture desired products in various smart industries. 
[12] AI has led to the massive improvement of current items and products as well as invention of 
new industrial products of better quality. The growing demand of better -quality food products of 
high quality as well as those that are healthy has been escalating. Of course, as time goes by and 
more people start educating themselves, the production of higher quality food becomes an absolute 
must. To meet these demands, intelligent machines have been developed to view produ cts in an 
equivalent way that the customers do. Those who have employed the fundamental idea of AI in their 
manufacturing system have seen an increase in their success rate. Multiple AI techniques have been 
and still are being used such as artificial neura l networks, hybrid methodology and data mining 
procedures.  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
[13] Terrorism these days have become a serious menace to national security, society and 
theeconomy. The information technology field has made several developments  and useful tools like ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
36 image and video processing, data integration and data mining. When we compare intelligence and 
security informatics (ISI) with biomedical informatics, we see that they both have a lot in common. 
Both of them are looking for new metho ds and approaches to make useful innovations of existing 
technologies. While biomedical informatics contribute to medicine and biology, ISI contribute in the 
art of criminology and research based on terrorism. [14] The National Security Agency (NSA) in 
October of the year 2016, Director Michael Rogers expressed that the agency views artificial 
intelligence to be the ―groundwork to the future of cybersecurity.‖ Cybersecurity has proved to be 
less labour -based than the conventional human surveillance. AI also  plays a major role in the field of 
information security. Natural language perceptive as well as numerous forms of machine language 
can permit a computer to detect unknown data and its respective amplifiers. AI based technological 
systems have already been  incorporated into the forces of militaries. AI can predict the stresses that 
may be implied on the force as well as predict if they will face psychological or physical harm. [15] 
Many incidents go unnoticed and undetected during the time of the unfortunat e event due to human 
operators or eyeballing CCTV cameras.In such instances, we don‘t really find the use of them when 
fearful crimes happen at a that particular moment. Consequently, CCTV camera footage are just 
used asreliable evidence for investigation.  Intruder detection is based on the system of fence 
trespassing detection which gives signal to an operator that they have an intruder that has passed the 
fence. The system of ‗Loitering detection‘ can detect individuals who stay in an area of control for 
an extended period of time. In the current situations, many technologies give false alarms in various 
situations. To solve this situation, emerging techniques are being developed using AI.  
 
AI in Education  
[16] AI has made many progressions over the past 2 5 years in the field of education. The main 
challenge is to create a special kind of one -on-one tutoring system where there is a student can learn 
without needing much physical things around them. ‗Faster classrooms‘ have been built in this 
process which s aves a lot of energy as well as valuable time. Students can now easily access their 
required document or reference any time they want without having to wait for the actual physical 
document. With the introduction of AI in the education system, teachers are  no longer required to 
collect every piece of information for their learners. Instead, they guide as well as support their pupil 
in seeking the required information, making them the desired independent developers. Files can be 
accessed by both teachers and  students that makes it easier to cooperate with each other. [17] The 
significant upgrade in this system of learning has impacted the content of learning and the 
curriculum personalized by the student‘s needs. AI has also made the instructor‘s jobs smoothe r as 
they can perform their duties with much more ease. Correcting papers becomes much more efficient 
and time -saving for the educators and students can observe their corrected paper at an instant. Fast 
communication between the instructor and the learner allows the learner to gain the knowledge at a 
particular desired instant. [18] The computer assisted learning (CAL) allows the functioning of 
alternatives that allows the proper support of student‘s learning with digital technology. The 
Education Managemen t Information System (EMIS) is a group of services that can collect, store and 
examine information for educational uses. The advanced functioning of Education Management 
Information System (EMIS) allows an educational community to access files and document s that 
can be also be stored for future use.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[19] One important advantage of artificial intelligence is that the strategic decisions that are made 
are fact based rather than opinions. This makes them a more reliable source rather than asking Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
37 people who usually base their ideas based on their own opin ions. Machines, who do not require any 
sleep like humans, overcome the disadvantage of being tired and unable to work. When we train an 
artificial mind with a specific subject, it can be replicated with ease by reducing the time that would 
rather be requir ed. [20] It also assures permanency and is also cost -effective. The speed that is seen 
while trying to solve problems is also very convenient, thus saving time. Valuable information can 
also be easily stored and saved that prevents it from getting lost. Fo r instance, many technologies 
tend to save files even if we forget to physically save it for further usage. AI also allows the 
development of a system which can increase its performance and relevance. [21] It takes on the 
stressful work that humans often s truggle with. One can use AI technologies to look into 
undiscovered places, like the various places in the depths of ocean and the outer space. This ensures 
the safety of human beings as well as allows us to find out useful information. While working with 
AI we find less errors in the outputs making them a more reliable source. [22] Machine learning 
allows many companies to make better and crucial decisions and also assists them in solving 
problems. Not only do companies benefit from this but the entire wor ld is able to find some 
assistance through suitable devices. Human intervention is not required for machine learning and 
can easily identify various trends and patterns. There are vast numbers of diverse applications of 
machine learning. [23] AI is used to  analyze molecular composition of many medicinal drugs and so 
it is able to ensure the utmostsafety of patients creating a lesser chance of severe after effects. 
Hospitals also use computer devices to detect the patients that are at the most risk enabling them to 
save a patient‘s life. It also reduces the potential risk of human life while working for the mining 
industries. These mining companies are able to create numerous devices that could be operated 
underground in the unbearable and dangerous condition s without the presence of any human being.  
 
Challenges or Dis -advantages of AI  
[24] One concerning disadvantage of AI is the effect of the reduced number of job opportunities. As 
more devices start replacing human work, the rapid increase in unemployment comes into the 
picture. Logically speaking, machines and technologies may have the ability to translate human like 
behavior but the creativity and the appropriate communication skills cannot be displayed by 
artificially made technologies. In various cases,  interaction between two creative minds becomes 
reasonably essential, which AI based devices cannot be trusted with. AI replacing human minds in 
the field of medicine is a serious topic of concern as the benefits that are needed from it may be 
disturbed ca using extreme harm. [25] If AI soon starts replacing human, then it will cause a huge 
rise in the rate of unemployment, leading to poverty, depression and more criminal activities. The 
over reliance on AI can lead to various problems. For instance, if a sy stem malfunctions, then 
incorrect answers will be produced and one cannot find the reason behind the error killing a lot of 
time. While using AI based technologies, one may notice the lack of creativity in its outcomes. [26] 
The constant development of mac hines and advanced technologies can lead to unemployment. 
Surgical processes which need immense precision have been replaced by appropriate technologies 
which work ‗more efficiently‘. This is when the thought of ‗robots taking over the planet‘ haunts our 
minds. The fear of constant judgement also takes place as devices are designed to record the things 
happening around them at every second. [27] A lot of money, time and energy is also used up while 
trying to create such AI based devices but it has also made  a human being both mentally and 
physically inactive. While trying to work in teams, machines cannot have the same communicative 
skills or develop bonds with a person. Machines, at times, do not have the ability to ‗think out of the ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
38 box‘ which is a crucial  aspect of success. The whole purpose of creation is to make something that is 
unique and something that stands out from the rest. [28] AI based learning and education can lead to 
many disadvantages. Depending on the idea of E -learning as the source of edu cation can lead to lack 
of interaction because of the remoteness surrounding the student and teacher. This can cause a 
decrease in the learning outcome and therefore, the value of e -learning deteriorates. A student‘s 
communication skills are affected when there is no face -to-face interaction. The teacher fails to find 
out whether the student is gaining from virtual lessons or not especially during the class time. A 
child‘s discipline can also never be monitored through the process of E -learning. A teacher c annot 
keep a record of what the student does and it becomes difficult to penalize the student for what they 
have done that is considered immoral.  
 
Conclusion  
From what I know, artificial intelligence has its ups and downs but at the end of the day it has  made 
human life much simpler. We are able to contact the people we know at an instant and share our 
experiences and knowledge with the universe. As time goes on, better and stronger devices come 
into existence and never fail to show ustheir worth in the c urrent complex society but there is always 
a fear of artificial intelligence ‗taking over the world‘. We tend to believe that soon ―robots‖ will 
replace human work. This leads to the decrease of human value as a whole. Moreover, it becomes 
very unsafe to h ave complete reliance on such devices.As we think about how artificial intelligence 
contributes to our daily lives, we think about the devices which help us with our everyday activities 
and we realize how inconvenient it would become if they never were cre ated.They assist us in 
uncountable daily activities starting from the moment we open our eyes and hear the ringing sound 
of the alarm clock. The world has seen many advancements in the field of artificial intelligence. 
Some may have had treacherous impacts  on society but the learning gained from such creations have 
led to the making of a smarter world. The problem -solving minds of human beings have put them on 
top of the triangle and so we believe that it is our duty to create and control. Artificial intell igence 
has proved to human beings that both work and time can be saved by using meaningful devices and 
that the advantages served by these machines can never be ignored.Hence, the concept of artificial 
intelligence becomes inescapable.  
 
Reference s 
Aghion, P., Jones, B. F., & Jones, C. I. (2019).  9. Artificial Intelligence and Economic Growth  (pp. 
237-290). University of Chicago Press.  
Amisha, P. M., Pathania, M., & Rathaur, V. K. (2019). Overview of artificial intelligence in 
medicine.  Journal of family medicine and primary care , 8(7), 2328.  
Arkorful, V., & Abaidoo, N. (2015). The role of e -learning, advantages and disadvantages of its 
adoption in higher education.  International Journal of Instructional Technology and 
Distance Learning , 12(1), 29 -42. 
Bhbo sale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Bouletreau, P., Makaremi, M., Ibrahim, B., Louvrier, A., & Sigaux, N. (2019). Artificial  
intelligence: applications in orthognathic surgery.  Journal of stomatology, oral and 
maxillofacial surgery , 120(4), 347 -354. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53. 
Charniak, E. (1985).  Introdu ction to artificial intelligence . Pearson Education India.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
39 Chen, H., & Wang, F. Y. (2005). Guest editors' introduction: Artificial intelligence for homeland 
security.  IEEE intelligent systems , 20(5), 12 -16. 
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review.  Ieee Access , 8, 
75264 -75278.  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial 
intelligence.  Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -
375. 
Gong, S., Loy, C. C., & Xiang, T. (2011). Security and surveillance. In  Visual analysis of 
humans  (pp. 455 -472). Springer, London.  
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., & Scharre, P. (2018).  Artificial 
intelligence and international s ecurity . Center for a New American Security..  
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3. 
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?.  
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries. In  Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of Defence Delhi . 
Mohammadi, V., & Minaei, S. (2019). Artificial intelligence in the production process. 
In Engineering tools in the beverage industry  (pp. 27 -63). Woodhead Publishing.  
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). A rtificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Nadimpalli, M. (2017). Artificial intelligence risks and benefits.  International Journal of Innovative 
Research in Science, Engineering and Technology , 6(6). 
Nilsson, N. J. (2009).  The quest for artificial int elligence . Cambridge University Press.  
Pan, Y. (2016). Heading toward artificial intelligence 2.0.  Engineering , 2(4), 409 -413. 
Pedro, F., Subosa, M., Rivas, A., & Valverde, P. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education: 
Challenges and opportunities for s ustainable development.  
Roll, I., & Wylie, R. (2016). Evolution and revolution in artificial intelligence in 
education.  International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education , 26(2), 582 -599. 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intellig ence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Tao, B., Díaz, V., & Guerra, Y. (2019). Artificial Intelligence and Education, Challenges and 
Disadvantages for the Teacher.  Arctic Journal , 72(12), 30 -50. 
Wan, J., Li, X., Dai, H. N., Kusiak, A. , Martínez -García, M., & Li, D. (2020). Artificial -intelligence -
driven customized manufacturing factory: key technologies, applications, and 
challenges.  Proceedings of the IEEE , 109(4), 377 -398. 
Zang, Y., Zhang, F., Di, C. A., & Zhu, D. (2015). Advances of  flexible pressure sensors toward 
artificial intelligence and health care applications.  Materials Horizons , 2(2), 140 -156. 
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
126 DETECTING TUMORS IN HUMAN BODY BY  
THE MEANS OF LIGHT  
 
KANDULA SAI ALEKHYA  
 
HEZAL ANISH DOSHI  
Email ID: kandulasai.alekhya2018@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Abstract  
Magnetic Resonance Imaging(MRI) has become one of the greatest inventions used to find even the smallest 
cancer particle in a living creature. But is it really safe? Aren’t there any risk factors involved in the usage of 
x-rays or gamma rays? Here we have gathered information about the usage of just light from our visible 
spectrum to not only detect the cancer particles, but also the behaviour and activities of these particles. Light 
is all around us, and we don’t use it to its maximum potential. Why go for  artificially produced light for 
treatments and other purposes when you can use the natural source of light. It has been recently found that 
light which falls in the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum can be used to see deep inside body and 
brain and conclude with suitable treatments. A recent advancement in the study of biomedical and 
technological advancement shows that there are various means by which tumors  and other harmful molecules 
can be detected and diaphanography  is becoming a major pa rt to study upon under this particular area.  
Keywords: infrared light, diaphanography , tumors , holography, oncology  
 
Introduction  
Healthcare, the most sought -after sector of the modern world, is witnessing new heights when it 
comes to technological advance ments. The use of magnets and electricity was the beginning of this 
developing era when it started to shift away from the simple technique of guessing via symptom 
analysis. Each and every time, our brain makes us believe that this is the best development t hat is 
possible in this sector, however the very same brain, forces us into asking the questions of how and 
why. Thus, when healthcare was peaking  with the use of electromagnetic instruments, Science, on 
its own led us into another astonishing discovery wh ich was intelligently put together for yet another 
invention in this concerning sector . We  come to realise that light pierces through our flesh and 
comes out of the surrogate direction, following the very same path as through which it enters. This 
light then passes through human cells help in discovering tumors  and blood clots all through our 
body. Now, the only shortcoming of this technique is that light, when passing through this medium, 
scatters, as is it's property. Thus, we use a hologram to 'de -scatter' the scattering rays of light. This 
solves most of the problem that is faced while using this technique. There is a  high-tech miniature 
imaging device,  which can image the most sensitive organ of the human body, that is the brain, 
without causing any d amage, since it uses infrared  light or simply red light or green light. This is so 
small, it consists of only 3 discs which use sound waves and light waves simultaneously to detect 
tumors  inside our brain and other body parts. This technique is more effici ent, cost wise and space 
wise, and thus can be made easily available to remote areas, in ambulances and emergency rooms of 
the smallest of hospitals as well, so as to save the time after a stroke to detect it's type and provide 
the right treatment to the v ictim. This miniature computerized imaging device is so compatible that 
it doesn't require any kind of surgery or alternative brain surgeries either, it can simply be worn 
around one's waist as a bandage or on one's head, as infrared light has no problems in crossing the 
skull. Moreover, usage of red or infrared light doesn‘t cause harm like that of gamma rays or x-rays, Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
127 as when they penetrate through our body, sometimes cause tumours . So, this is by far the most 
intriguing of all the recent inventions and can be the most effective of all as well if studied and 
promoted properly. Especially, in a country like India, where medical facilities are not present in 
most of the remote areas and are unavailable to almost 65 percent  of the population, this device can  
act as a messiah and save a lot of lives.  
 
Literary Survey  
[1] Diaphanography a  technique which uses near-infrared  light to image inside the tissues and that 
helps us see the internal structure and thereby helping characterise tumours easily. Photon migra tion 
is nowadays used in analysing the scattering images on an ultrafast timescale . Light propagation in 
human tissues gets difficult after every small movement deeper inside. For this reason, light 
undergoes multiple scattering from a collimated beam and propagates through various layers of 
tissues. Another method is known  as the temporal resolution method which has helped in imaging 
structures of various tissues, predicting  drug levels used for various treatments. This method has also 
been used to identif y solid tumours  which are embedded deep inside beneath the tissues by using 
short light pulse and reading the phase and frequency of the output pulse obtained. These methods, 
which  help in measuring malignancy, and other factors like age and menopausal sta tus can 
determine primarily the presence of breast cancer.  
 [2] Light of the visible region is used in imaging  of tissues and tumors . But it mentions that the 
use of NIR is better compared to red light as haemoglobin and blood have smallest adsorption 
coefficient of this region of light which prevents any further complications as in gamma rays or x -
rays. Nowadays, it is used in collaboration with MRI to get the desired  result. The focus is also 
given to the detection of early cancer and symptoms using recep tor -targeted probes, to get the effect 
reduced. Fluorescent proteins  are also used which are similar to CT but uses a framework to analyse 
the diffused nature of light photons in tissues. Bioluminescence imaging technology uses light 
emitted during enzyme  catalysed reactions to detect flaws in molecular level and in small animals. 
This analyses each part of the animal and gives partial holographic imaging of the defects present in 
the body and guides us to proceed to further actions to be taken. It also sa ys that proceedings in this 
field are going to bring about drastic changes and also help reduce the minimum of the absorption 
and scattering of light that will happen with advancement in this technological world.  
 [3] The world of biochemical imaging got a  new development with the Introduction of invasive 
mapping that use fluorescence to map molecular events in intact tissues. The silver lining of this 
new technology is that the base of this technology is strengthened by the detection and discovery of 
probe s which are not only specifically fluorescent but are also amazingly biocompatible and, also 
new technologies for highly sensitive imaging was developed. The ability of photons to be able to 
penetrate several centimetres in tissue can be attributed to fluo rochromes which cause water and 
haemoglobin to be absorbed minimally and emit in the near Infrared range.  
 [4] Visible light inside opaque objects is generally absorbed  or scatter the light photons entering 
it. This difference has led to light probes categorised as spectroscopy and imaging. The utility of 
either of this approach is based on how well the methods can differentiate the defective tissue and 
the normal tissue . Spectroscopy is useful in the time to time analysis in the alteration in the 
absorption and scattering rates. This helps us get them  to the right conclusion of what the exact 
problem is like in monitoring the flow of blood in the various cerebrum lobes -frontal, parietal or 
occipital and giving results of internal bleeding due to any head injury. The imaging is used to ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
128 differentiate it from the background tissue and detect early the cancer globule and curb the problem 
before it can spread any further. An e xperiment is performed where a setup is made similar to 
human tissue and two optical fibres are used to inject infrared photons onto the sample and the other 
is used to detect the photons at some other location. These read out the various patterns of scatt ering 
and absorption and help in locating the exact position of the particle.  
 [5] The focus is given on the need to detect a tumor  in the early stages of its formation. This 
diagnosis of premature lesions is crucial for decreasing its complexity and incre asing the survival 
rate. Chromoendoscopy and fluorescence endoscopy have been developed to increase the detection 
of tumors  in various parts of the human body , like  the lungs and colon. Cyanine dyes have been used 
to bind to receptors on the tumor  affected cells. These are used due to high selectivity and affinity 
with low doses of input itself. It also talks about the low penetration of near-infrared light but the 
dyes help in the detection ofof -of superficial lesions.  
 [6] Multispectral polarised light imaging(MSPLI) is used for the inspection of skin cancer and 
also study different skin disorders. Confocal microscopy is the method used for focussing light on 
the specimen . An image is captured by gathering the behaviour of the light reflected which  is 
collected by the detector of the microscope. The difference in the resolution in the detector tells us 
the difference in the thickness of the cancer tissues. This method allows imaging in large view, is 
cost efficient  and less time consuming, but  doesn ‘t supply information about the primary structure of 
the cancer cell.  
 [7] There are many methods of imaging tumors  in small animals like planar imaging,  
fluorescence tomography, bioluminescence tomography and optical detecting.  These methods allow 
three -dimensional  imaging which helps us analyse better. Planar imaging is all the more complicated 
as it doesn‘t allow resolving of tissues whereas tomography changed this idea and gave way to 
overcome the same.  
 [8] Hematoporphyrin derivative(HPD) is found to b e used in curing cancer in areas like breast , 
colon, etc . It is found to be curative for a number of tumors . The experiment is carried out by using 
the dye followed by the focusing of red light on the spot of the tumor . Results have shown that 
complete resp onse towards tumors  was found within a span of 24 hours.  
 [9] In vivo imaging -in association with the near-infrared  light has been used under the detection 
technologies in the new ways of biological approach.There is a comparison being made with 
different  methods which are primarily based on resolution, depth of penetration, the detection of 
threshold probes and expandability of the image. In vivo is being used in collaboration with other 
methods to increase the accuracy in the end results.  
 [10] Approache s of molecular imaging to detect and phenotype tumors  has made it which allows 
it to study deep inside the tissues and also observe the structural differences in the affected tissues. 
Fluorescence imaging allows us to observe  the fluorescence change in the  animals but limits to the 
fact that it only allows resolving of fluorescent molecules . This  uses a methodology that it injects 
red light to the specimen and the reflected light is got by the detector in the form of green light with 
precision and accuracy in the structure as well as the location of the tumor . 
 
Findings  
The research gives us a clear idea on how there are many ways in which tumors  and other hazardous 
particles can be detected using the means of light which falls in or near the visible region of the 
electromagnetic spectrum. This helps us  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
129 Conclusion  
Detection of tumors  using light was thought to be a really small topic which was not so when we 
completed the paper. The technological advancement in this field is unexceptionally vast and the 
study is still proceeding further, where  faster and better results will be processed in near future and 
hope  to see the technology reach every part of the world and make the smallest difference in each 
one of their lives.  
 
References  
Becker, A., Hessenius, C., Licha, K., Ebert, B., Sukowski , U., Semmler, W., ... &Grötzinger, C. 
(2001). Receptor -targeted optical imaging of tumors  with near -infrared fluorescent 
ligands.  Nature Biotechnology , 19(4), 327.  
Dougherty, T. J., Kaufman, J. E., Goldfarb, A., Weishaupt, K. R., Boyle, D., &  Mittleman, A. 
(1978). Photoradiation therapy for the treatment of malignant tumors . Cancer 
research , 38(8), 2628 -2635.  
Graves, E. E., Weissleder, R., &  Ntziachristos, V. (2004). Fluorescence molecular imaging of  small 
animal tumor  models.  Current molecular medicine , 4(4), 419 -430. 
Ntziachristos, V., Bremer, C., &  Weissleder, R. (2003). Fluorescence imaging with near -infrared 
light: new technological advances that enable in vivo molecular imaging.  European 
radiology , 13(1), 195 -208. 
Ntziachristos, V., Ripoll, J., Wang, L. V., &  Weissleder, R. (2005). Looking and listening to light: 
the evolution of whole -body photonic imaging. Nature Biotechnology , 23(3), 313.  
Tromberg, B. J., Shah, N., Lanning, R., Cerussi,  A., Espinoza, J., Pham, T., ... & Butler, J. (2000). 
Non-invasive in vivo characterization of breast tumors  using photon migration 
spectroscopy.  Neoplasia , 2(1-2), 26 -40. 
Weissleder, R. (2001). A clearer vision for in vivo imaging.  
Weissleder, R., &  Ntziachristos, V. (2003). Shedding light onto live molecular targets.  Nature 
medicine , 9(1), 123.  
Yaroslavsky, A. N., Barbosa, J. G., Neel, V., DiMarzio, C. A., & Anderson, R. R. (2005). 
Combining multispectral polarized light imaging and confocal microsco py for localization 
of nonmelanoma skin cancer.  Journal of biomedical optics , 10(1), 014011.  
Yodh, A., & Chance, B. (1995). Spectroscopy and imaging with diffusing light.  Physics 
Today , 48(3), 34 -41. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
333 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
ANU GOWDA M 
B.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering  
Email ID: anugowda.m2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence  
[1] Artificial intelligence is the field of science and technology to produce machines , specifically 
programs of a computer. It is basically a methodology to use the computers to acknowledge human 
intelligence, Without itself resembling any biological characteristics of human beings.  [2] Artificial 
intelligence is regarded as the ability of a system to take up external data and interpret precisely, 
form a basic com ponent of leaning from that data and to utilize those learnings to gear up to 
particular goals and chores via flexible adaptation.  It is a technology which makes the life of people 
easier by increasing the rate of work with or without few disadvantages.  It includes computer 
programming to classic codes which enables smooth functioning of machines which we use in day 
to day life. AI can offer a work which cannot be generated manually at any cost and therefore AI 
plays an important role in analysing and repre senting data in a precise manner.  
 
History and Growth of Artificial Intelligence  
[3] Artificial intelligence has a beginning which can be traced back to the initial era of philosophy 
and imagination. Inventions during initial days was based on engineering aspects like electronics 
and few others which has influenced AI to a large extent.AI can be traced back to many years which 
originated with simple techniques and technologies.  Some instances include working in problems 
which involves basic learning, repres entation  of knowledge and problem solving demonstration in 
languages and many more  [4] The official language of AI was described by George Boole in 
1847.Following it was the history created in 1936 during when  Alan M discussed about the Turning - 
machine .T he artificial neurons was created by Warren McCulloch in 1936.  
 
Growth of Artificial Intelligence  
[5] AI may be used for the ordinary production of goods and specialized services which impacts the 
economic growth of the country drastically. It can also be used to modify the ideas for the creation 
of varied technologies which later helps to o vercome complicated problems [6] Artificial 
intelligence was implemented everywhere from the emerging company to a well -built company .It 
reduces the time taken to complete the task by decreasing the workload on the labourers which in 
turn increases the productivity within the stipulated time.AI has shown a significant growth in 
economy where the productivity is sometimes directly based on its performance. With these  kind of 
significant growth in AI as technology the number of users depending on it is increasing day by day.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare Appliances  
[7]AI reduces the workload on doctors and it helps them to diagnose without themselves being at the 
state of confusion. In spite of this advantage it also helps them to overcome mental stress and to do 
the medical procedure more efficiently which leads to accurate decisions taken by the staffs and 
nurses. A significant growth of AI is seen in the las t few years.[8]Mobiles are used to detect certain 
medical terminologies In the modern world where the device can be used to specify certain ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
334 abnormal conditions.  AI has also helped to increase the rate of production of medicines. In case of 
any emergency in  medical aspects AI plays a huge role in compensating the time which is lost. By 
this the doctorsget sufficient time to concentrate on the tasks . For example if the blood pressure of a 
person needs to be in a specific level and needs to be monitored then there can be a machine which 
uses the technology of artificial intelligence instead of person monitoring. With such technologies 
like this it enhances the performances of surgical activity as it gives more time and precision for 
doctors to perform that spe cific tasks.  [9] AI has seen a significant growth in detecting certain 
diseased which would take longer to detect manually and thereby saving lots of life in today‘s era.AI 
is seen as an emerging subject of science in medicinal field. Some of the complex c haracteristics of 
human skin can be detected by using the e -skin which is based on tactile sensor. Pressure used for 
certain surgical purpose can be detected using robots via computer programming. High accuracy 
tasks can be performed using robots where hum ans fail to do so. In case of the production of 
medicinal drugs AI has helped a lot as it can increase the rate of production. Biotechnology , a field 
of biology which is in high demand dude to the high demand of medicinal drugs, is seeing an 
enormous grow th. The advancement of microscope to look at the specimen more precisely helps to 
overcome some vulnerable situations.  One can say that the medicinal field in today‘s era is as it is 
because of the technology involved in it as these technologies are indire ctly related in saving a huge 
number of lives of people. Therefore Artificial intelligence as a field of science is mainly 
emphasised in bringing gain to all sectors of science especially in medical field by giving it what it 
can offer at its best.  
 
Artifi cial Intelligence in Manufacturing and Production  
[10] Artificial has deliberately contributed to the increase in the quality of the products which in turn 
reduced the cost of manufacturing goods through man power. It also adds up to the fact that it is us er 
friendly. Competition  among the manufacturers has increased over the past few years.  [11] AI is 
used in controlling the cost of a particular work as it reduces the labour hours and therefore it is 
environment friendly.  [12] AI is seen contributing positively to the revolution of certain industries 
which includes manufacturing and production as their main preference. Due to the increase in the 
accessibility of AI certain products like smart watches, sensors have increased their efficiency and 
need to  people in the recent time.AI has made humans to evaluate the products more efficiently in a 
faster rate. With the demand for the goods is increasing day by day than the supply of the product 
due to the high population these  days , AI is playing a major ro le in upstanding with this task. 
Moreover it has also increased the rate at which a goods are manufactured. A bottle made manually 
can be good enough but it consumes a lot of time to make thousand such bottles . At the same time a 
machine can manufacture 1 000 such bottles less than a time taken to make one bottle manually. By 
analysing this situation we can see how Artificial intelligence has made our life easier by making it 
possible for the supply to meet the demands of human beings.  
 
Artificial Intellige nce in Security and Surveillance  
[13] Artificial intelligence has been used by majority of the countries nowadays in military and 
defence. They are using robots especially as a guard whose functions would be similar to be 
autonomous.[14] AI has been used e normously in military when it comes to viewing an enemy on 
the target level strategically which can be referred to as the tactical battlefield.  [15] AI plays a 
significant role in maintaining security. Many advanced features are emerging these days in the IT Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
335 field such as cyber security where varied unus ual practices can be identified . It can be used to seek 
alerts whenever there is a cyber attack or a hack.These days there are many cyber attacks which 
leads to t he loss of huge amount of money . Nowadays man y privacy alerts are seen which is a great 
threat to the security of the country or an individual. In order to combat such situations being intense 
AI can be useful in most of the cases. It has also shared its contribution in helping to set alarm alerts 
in case of any instability in the performance of the stipulated objects therefore disabling the risk 
threats. Many transactions which needs more security is being processed AI stimulated machines 
which ensures that there is no disagreement between the deposi tor and a receiver. When a belonging 
of a person gets lost , such as mobile phones and such devices , it can easily be tracked to get it back. 
Nowadays OTP is played a major role in decreasing the number of chances the details can be hacked 
by providing one  time password which only the owner of that details can access. By this we can 
easily analyse the importance of Artificial intelligence in the field of security as many such 
investigations cannot be done manually. AI gives us what a manual work fails to gi ve us in terms of 
security.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIED)  
[16] The application of AI in education is equipped with the development of AI in technologies for 
the purpose of study in case of human teaching and for the learning which facilitates systems of 
engineering. Some of the method which involves conceptual studies utilizes AI for learning 
outcomes such as control, planning, acquisition and knowledge representation.[17]  Since 20 years, 
computers are being used in education. The f irst teaching attempt using system was through 
Computer -based training  (CBT) and computer aided instruction(CAI).  The needs of the learner was 
not individualized by these kind of systems.AI can also be used to generate certain conditions where 
a physically  challenged students can find it easy to learn something new. There are many tools 
which enables those kind of students to cope up with learning.[18]During the conduction of exam 
and evaluation of the answer scripts of the students AI plays a major role in  detecting the accurate 
and false answers and therefore reducing the work load of teachers in most of the cases .This can 
also be applied to check the accuracy of the performances in interview , mocktests , working 
precision ETC.  Many instances taken from journals which includes instructional and dialogue 
systems, exploratory learning supported through AI ,student writing analysis, environments which 
are based on games chatbots supported by students which enables to control their learning firmly on 
their ow n.AI can be used to deliver a lecture more practically to the students which enables them to 
understand the concepts with more clarity and efficiency. Some of  the complex concepts which 
involves high virtual thinking cannot be thought manually and therefor e in such cases  AI plays a 
significant role. AI can also be used to generate applications in case an user wants to apply abroad 
for any education specific reason. This would definitely increase the rate at which the work is done 
by the student instead of t hem wasting time by wai ting long hours for small tasks . In this way it 
gives more time to students to concentrate on academics instead of worrying about tasks which are 
indirectly related to education. With all these facilities of AI, a student tends to le arn a subject with 
more understanding and clarity of the concepts. Many organizations have been formed which uses 
these techniques in the field of teaching . And in many cases students learning from these techniques 
have topped the list. In this way AI has  helped to achieve a significant growth in the quality of 
deliverance in the field of education sector.  
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
336 Advantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[19].Artificial intelligence (AI) applications are utilized to simulate human intelligence for either 
solving a problem or making a decision. AI provides the advantages of permanency, reliability, and 
cost-effectiveness while also addressing uncertainty and speed in either solving a problem or 
reaching a decision.AI has been applied in such diverse realms as enginee ring, economics, 
linguistics, law, manufacturing and medicine, and for a variety of modelling, prediction, and 
decision support and control applications.Artificial Intelligence is used to increase the productivity 
of goods and manufacturing items which ena bles the industry to gain the profit.  [20].  One of the 
major advantages of artificial intelligence is that its decisions are based on facts rather than 
emotions.Even after our utmost efforts, it is a well known fact that human decisions are always 
affected  in a negative way by our emotions. Unlike humans, machines with artificial intelligence do 
not need any sleep, thus overcoming the inherent disadvantage of tiredness in humans.Easier 
spreading of knowledge. Once an artificial mind is trained for something , it can be very easily 
copied to the others reducing the time wasted in otherwise passing on knowledge to other humans 
through training. Moreover it enables the system to work more efficiently rather than getting tired 
unlike human beings .This decreases the time needed to perform certain tasks with more efficiency 
and less stress [21] . In the present era systems provide perfect utilization by the fellow beings by 
implementing experimentation and initiating application of artificial intelligence .It has tasks which 
are perceptual. In many cases these technologies stimulate human brain whi ch can be used for 
specific reasons.It has also emerged significantly in the field of gaming and giving theorems to 
involve users in activities more than perceptual tasks. In this way we can view AI technology 
emerging as a field to do tasks quicker and ea sier.It can also be noted that modern technologies 
which involves AI makes the banking life easy. [22].  AI involves in developing many field of 
technologies including chatbots , self learning algorithms , transition of machines which enables users 
to underst and their environment  in a batter manner and to act accordingly..  Many organizations are 
seen adopting AI technologies to compete with the fast growing technologies.AI has seen expressing 
the way to the automation improvement, effects of transformation and  information effects but also to 
involve interaction with humans with certain detections and predictions.  [23] In case of detection 
and diagnosing certain particular faults in energy systems of building .AI has emerged enormously 
with powerful capacity.  This reveals some of the intelligence -based methods which can be 
implemented in future. Considering the subject of doing task more easily, artificial intelligence. A I 
can be used to monitor certain aspects to prevent malpractices during certain examinations  where the 
user is restricted from using external devices to search the answers and indulge themselves in such 
activities. In this way AI ensures a fair activity for everyone. AI can also be used to increase the 
speed of transactions as in today‘s world mo st of the transactions are done through net -banking  
 
Disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[24] Lack of creativity in responses,  Inability to explain the logic and reasoning behind a certain 
decision, Current development is at a stage where the AI cann ot know when there is no solution to a 
particular problem,  Any malfunctioning can lead to the AI producing wrong solutions and since it 
cannot explain the reasoning behind its answer, blind reliance on AI can lead to problems, Lack of 
common sense in reaso ning can also cause major problems •It can be used to cause mass scale 
destruction if given in the wrong hands.[25]Disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence (AI) Some of 
the main disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in our daily lives are as follow s. It should be Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
337 noted that all the data stored in the technology of AI is through manual and therefore if there is a 
slight error then it can cause a huge loss to the company as AI software need to be updated about the 
concept of data regularly. Some time it can be misused leading to mass scale destruction ,Program 
mismatch sometime done opposite to the command,human jobs are affected, Unemployment 
problem increased,Creativity is depend upon programmer,  Lacks the human touch,Younger 
generation becomes lazy,  Require a lot of time and money, and, Technological dependency 
increased [11]  It is also observed that due to the high dependency on AI , many youngsters are prone 
to investing huge amount on certain apps expecting a huge return of investment . And on one  fine 
day if the return didn‘t meet their expectations then they are often prone to depression. TheAI which 
is developed recently has seen a negative impact where over depended on ICT models has been seen 
in the field  of big data, self -idea function which is lacking and such impacts are complicated.   
[12] Bio scientists still face difficulties in understanding the functionality of human brain but all 
they can say is that the human brain is capable of functioning more precisely in terms of chemical 
and physi cal aspects than a chip of a CPU .But as the new technologies are included without solving 
the mystery of the brain professor Steen considers that AI is stupid. [26]  As the machines arehighly 
expensive it is difficult to develop and equip them.Can lead to the investment of lots of cash and 
time to manufacture , repair and rebuild.AI can sometime mislead youngsters in the context of usage 
of machines.Itcan make users less intelligent as users depend on computer systems to do all the 
work.Moreover it is power  consuming which is not a great sign. Some times using Robots can lead 
to a disaster. For example when the robot is created to help humans do their tasks more precisely, 
sometimes it can be over used to gain more technology and it will perform the task whic h is not 
under the control of humans, In this way resources are lost and it basically damages the existing 
environment unnecessarily. This can often lead to huge financial loss of the company. Even though 
AI makes the data precisely ,sometimes people need one to one to solve certain problems instead of 
believing an algorithm . Therefore it is necessary to understand the limitations if usage of AI and we 
need to restrict ourselves from using it in the exceeding amount of time . One must try to develop 
the ba lance between using technology and growing up their own knowledge instead of blindly 
trusting AI in all aspects because and modification in the world will not update the technology 
automatically . Most of the cyber alerts are due to the dependency on AI in stead of manual security 
forces . These circumstances enables us to understand the limitations of AI and its usage.At the end 
it can be more harmful to children of today‘s generation as the are more prone to be dependent on 
AI for even a small work as they  are heavily exposed towards it. Youngsters involving themselves 
negatively in the field of AI has been observed in recent reports and it‘s a serious matter of concern 
whose issue needs to be raised in order to keep a huge population of youngsters on track . In this way 
one must understand the limitations of usage of Artificial intelligence.  
 
Conclusion  
Artificial intelligence shares the positive impact in today‘s world by pointing out few disadvantages 
too. In fact most of the industries,  hospitals,  enginee ring offices ,ATC controller office , Airports 
ETC are utilizing AI based systems to increase their rate of functionality .Without Artificial 
intelligence our life would be a sort of complicated time -consuming journey .Moreover the cons it 
shares does not overlap the pros. All structures which we view on Television is because of AI which 
has emerged significantly in these years. From education to utilization AI has been the most 
prioritized form in today‘s generation. Moreover to decide whether it is pro or  con ,it all depends on ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
338 the utilization by the user. Many applications which includes easing of life of human beings are 
developed to conserve the time for additional purpose. Some of us might find AI to be either helpful 
or loss but it all depends on the way one uses it. AI has played a key role in the fields such as health 
care appliances , security and surveillance and mainly in the field of education. Some times the task 
we wish to be performed effortlessly can backstab us by using AI, one such common exa mple is 
when we create a robot to do our day to day works but that robot gains power to dominate us in the 
aspect of doing work and one fine day that can backstab us as a result of predominance. At last it all 
depends on how the user makes benefit of i t, rather then concentrating on negative or positive 
aspects of AI . Precise use of AI can improve the rate of performing tasks and can even increase the 
precision. But at the same time, Over usage of AI can decrease the person‘s ability to think on his 
own an d becoming less intelligent.  
 
References  
Aghion, P., Jones, B. F., & Jones, C. I. (2019).  9. Artificial Intelligence and Economic Growth  (pp. 
237-290). University of Chicago Press.  
bdulov, R. (2020).  Artificial intelligence as an important factor of sustainable and crisis -free 
economic growth.  Procedia  Computer Science,  169, 468 -472. 
Beck, J., Stern, M., &Haugsjaa, E. (1996). Applications of AI in Education. XRDS: Crossroads, The 
ACM Magazine for Students, 3(1), 11 -15 
Benko, A., &Lányi, C. S. (2009). History of artificial intelligence. In  Encyclopedia of Information 
Science and Technology, Second Edition  (pp. 1759 -1762). IGI Global.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intelligence. Aayushi Internat ional Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine,  26(4), 53 -53. 
Chen, H., & Wang, F. Y. (2005). Guest editors' introduction: Artificial intelligence for homeland 
secur ity. IEEE intelligent systems,  20(5), 12 -16 
Chen, M., Liu, Q., Huang, S., & Dang, C. (2020). Environmental cost control system of 
manufacturing enterprises using artificial intelligence based on value chain of circular 
economy.  Enterprise Information Syste ms, 1 -20. 
Chien, C. F.,  Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies  
Chowdhury, M., &Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and lim itations of artificial intelligence.  
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues,6(3), 360 -375. 
Haenlein, M., & Kaplan, A. (2019). A brief history of artificial intelligence: On the past, present, 
and future of artificial intelligence.  California management review,  61(4), 5 -14 
Holmes, W., Bialik, M., & Fadel, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education. Boston: Center for 
Curriculum Redesign  
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., &Scharre,  P. (2018).  Artificial 
intelligence and international security. Center for a New American Security.  
Johnson, J. (2019). Artificial intelligence & future warfare: implications for international 
security.  Defense  & Security Analysis,  35(2), 147 -169. 
Lee, L. W., Dabirian, A., McCarthy, I. P., &  Kietzmann, J. (2020). Making sense of text: artificial 
intelligence -enabled content analysis. European Journal of Marketing  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
339 Li, B. H.,  Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering,  18(1), 86 -96 
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?  
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Librarie s. In Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of Defence Delhi.  
Murali¹, N., &  Sivakumaran, N. (2018).  Artificial intelli gence in healthcare –a review.  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.Science 
[ETEBMS -2016],5(6). [10]  Khanzode, K. C. A., &Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and 
Disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence and Ma chine Learning:A Literature 
Review.International Journal of Library & Information Science (IJLIS),9(1), 3 [11] Lu, H., 
Li, Y., Chen, M., Kim, H., &Serikawa, S. (2018). Brain intelligence: go beyond artificial 
intelligence. Mobile Networks and Applications,  23(2), 368 -375.  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016],5(6)  
Teng, X. (2019, April). Discussion about artificial intelligence‘s advantages and disadvantages 
compete with natural intelligence. In Journal of Physics: Conference Series (Vol. 1187, No. 
3, p. 032083). IOP Publishing.  
Wagner, J. B. (2019).  Artificial int elligence in medical imaging.  Radiologic technology,  90(5), 489 -
501.  
Woolf, B. (1991). AI in Education. University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Department of 
Computer and Information Science  
Zang, Y., Zhang, F., Di, C. A., & Zhu, D. (2015).  Advances of fl exible pressure sensors toward 
artificial intelligence and health care applications.  Materials Horizons,  2(2), 140 -156. 
Zhao, Y., Li, T., Zhang, X., & Zhang, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence -based fault detection and 
diagnosis methods for building energy  systems: Advantages, challenges and the future. 
Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 109, 85 -101. 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
340 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND THE HUMAN BRAIN  
 
TITAS RAHA  
B.Tech Computer Science  
Email ID: titas.raha2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence  
[1] Artificial intelligence is the making of intelligent machines , especially intelligent computer 
programs through science and engineering .It is related to making computers to know human 
intelligence but it is not confined to the biological ly observable methods . [2] The activity devoted 
for making intelligent machines is Artificial intelligence , as intelligence is the quality required for 
working properly and with environmental foresight .  
 
History of AI  
[3] The beginnings of artificial intelligence can be traced back to philosophy ,fiction and  
imagination. AI has been influenced by earlier electrical inventions and inventions done by 
engineers. Problem solving which included basic work in learning, represent ation of knowledge, 
inference and also demonstration programs in language understanding,  translation, proving of 
theorems , memory association and knowledge -based systems . [4] 1950 was the year when artificial 
intelligence was first described, but its widespread and medical application was prevented by several 
limitations in its early models. Advent of deep learning helped in overcoming many of these 
limitations during the early 2000s. AI systems are now capable of analyzing complex algorithms and 
self-learning.  
 
Growth of AI  
[5] Deep learning algorithms and neural networks are the forms of artificial intelligence  being 
intensely explored for novel healthcare applications in areas such as imaging and diagnoses, risk 
analysis, lifestyle management and mon itoring, health information management, and virtual health 
assistance. Benefits expected in these areas are ranging wide and also include increased speed in 
imaging, greater insight into predictive screening, and decreased healthcare costs and inefficiency . 
[6] The future of health care may change dramatically due to the solutions offered by entrepreneurs  
that change how we prevent, diagnose, and cure health conditions, by the use of artificial 
intelligence (AI). This article provides a timely and critical analysis of AI -driven health care startups 
and also identifies business model archetypes which are emerging that entrepreneurs from around 
the world are using to bring AI solutions to the marketplace  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[7] Flexible pressure sensors that are  based on the concept of organic materials, which combine the 
unique advantages of flexibility and low -cost, have emerged as a highly active field due to their 
promising applications in artificial intelligence systems and wearable health ca re devices.  [8] Our 
everyday life has been invaded by artificial intelligence and in the last 10 years everyone has seen 
the emergence of artificial intelligence as a very promising application in the field of medication . In 
a near future the chance that AI will find tremendous applications in dento -facial deformities 
recognition is very high due to its amazing power in image recognition.  [9] An increased life span Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
341 has resulted  due to Advancements in medical science and technology. The elderly often gets 
cognitively impaired and require urgent medical services which when left unnoticed may lead to 
fatal consequences. Due to lack of social care support for these adults, there arises the need to 
develop cost -effective assistive healthcare technological soluti ons for taking care of the elders and 
giving them the best tech -friendly experience. Intelligent homes, an environment of sensors with 
artificial intelligence integrated with home appliances, can provide the best solution for continuous 
and remote monitori ng of the health of the persons.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[10] Intelligentization , supported by artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, has become an 
important trend for industrial manufacturing over the past few decades which is accelerating  the 
development of smart manufacturing. Standard AI has been endowed with additional attributes in 
the modern industries, yielding industrial artificial intelligence (IAI) which has become the technical 
core of smart manufacturing.  [11] Research based on applications of artificial intelligence (AI) 
technology in the manufacturing industry in recent years, we can analyze the development of core 
technologies in the new era of ‗Internet plus AI‘, that has triggered a great change in the models, 
means, and eco systems of the manufacturing industry, as well as in the development of AI.  
[12] Modern manufacturing and logistics systems are supported by ubiquitous and computing 
networks which are very powerful. Within these networks, oceans of data are continuously being 
generated by sensors, machines, systems, smart devices, and people.  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
[13]Information technology valuable part of making our nation safer. Critical national security 
missions in the context of various data and technical  domain challenges could benefit from 
establishing an intelligence and security informatics research discipline. Just as biomedical 
informatics addresses information management issues in biological and medical applications, ISI 
would address such issues fo r intelligence and security applications. [14]Surveillance cameras have 
a plethora of usages in newly born cities including smart traffic, healthcare, monitoring, and meeting 
security needs. One of the most famous new cites is the Egypt's new administratio n capital ―New 
Cairo‖. The new administration capital of Egypt mainly characterizes with the green life style via 
the "Green River ". [15] Human eyes are highly efficient devices for scanning through a large 
quantity of low -level visual sensory data and delivering selective information to one‘s brain for 
high-level semantic interpretation and gaining situational awareness. Over the last few decades, 
the computer vision community has endeavoured to bring about similar perceptual capabilities to 
artificial visual sensors. Substantial efforts have been made towards understanding static images 
of individual objects and the corresponding processes in the human visual system.   
 
AI in Education  
[16] AI in education is a field concerned with the development of Art ificial Intelligence for the study 
in the department of human teaching and to engineer a system facilitating human learning. The 
questions of long -term nature are addressed by this field. ‗Intelligent Tutoring System‘(ITS) is a 
term frequently used regardi ng the engineering side of discipline. In support of AI activities such as 
planning,control,knowledge representation and acquisition, explanation, cognitive modelling and 
dialog management computational methods are used. Alternative theories about learning  are ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
342 evaluated and explored using computational methods.  [17] For over 20 years computers have been 
used in education. Systems that were first deployed as an attempt to teach using computers were 
computer -based training (CBT) and computer aided instruction  (CAI). Instructions in these kind of 
systems were not individualized to the learner‘s need. Instead there were script like decisions for the 
students to move through the material such as ‗ if question 20 is answered correctly move to 
question 40 otherwise  move to question 10‘ and thus the learner‘s abilities were not taken into 
account. Intelligent tutoring systems are highly effective in motivating students and increase their 
performance. [18]For more than 30 years the application of artificial intelligen ce to education 
(AIEd) has been the subject of academic research. Learning wherever it may occur, classrooms or in 
workplaces, is investigated by this field in order to support formal education as well as lifelong 
learning. In order  to promote the developm ent of adaptive learning environments and other AIEd 
tools that are flexible, inclusive, personalised, engaging, and effective it brings together AI, which is 
itself interdisciplinary, and the learning sciences (education, psychology, neuroscience, linguis tics, 
sociology, and anthropology). The scientific goal at the heart of AIEd is to ―make computationally 
precise and explicit forms of educational, psychological and social knowledge which are often left 
implicit.‖ In addition to being the engine behind mu ch ‗smart‘ ed tech, AIEd is also a powerful tool 
to open up  the ‗black box of learning,‘ giving us deeper, and more fine -grained understandings of 
how learning actually happens.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[19] The advantages provided by AI is that it is durable, reliable, and cost -effective while also 
addressing uncertainty and speed in either solving a problem or reaching a decision. AI has been 
applied in many diverse realms such as engineering, economics, lin guistics, law, manufacturing and 
medicine, and also for a variety of modeling, prediction, and decision support and control 
applications. AI has been rigorously used in internet such as in search engines which is one of its 
most promising applications. wit h their increased use in applications. AI has already proven to be 
quite reliable in many different applications and broad application of any tool only occurs when its 
reliability has been established, and it has the ability to simulate human intelligence in a reasoning 
process. AI supports cost minimization as it enables reduction on the need of personnel time like 
many automations. By adopting appropriate AI applications in the decision -making process, thus 
reducing operational costs an agency can reduce significant staff time. [20] In a literature review 
about using AI in trading and investing and theories of chaos and automata, an online AI -based 
trading platform, a TEDx presentation, and also an interview with a software engineer was presented 
and analy sis of all these materialsdemonstrated that it take much time to collect data and make 
strategies by analysing it using traditional training method, which is also time -consuming. An AI 
trading system although expensive to develop, can explore vast data and  make more and better 
results once built, for example, picking stocks quickly. Artificialintelligence  have a huge impact on 
trading and investing in financial markets as indicated by the results. Although it is expensive to 
invest in it as an individual or  small company, it is proven to be more profitable for big finance 
companies at the same time . [21] Artificial intelligence has incredible benefits, Itcan offer us, is to 
evolve definitively and move on to the history of artificial robots. The main advantages of Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) are it can finish task faster than humans,it can easily complete stressful and 
complex works, It can do a difficult work in short period of time,It can do various tasks at the same 
time,the success ratio is high, it shows less error in tasks,it takes up less space, it is compact in size, Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
343 it can do calculation of long term and complex situations, and  also discover unexplored things. i.e. 
outer space.  [22] Human works can be reduced by using artificial intelligence, by replacing peoples 
by machines and people can do others works like programming , self -writing , self modifying etc by 
these works man feels burden on him, artificial intelligence is like a cheap labourand by using this 
labour we can make our work fast an d also increase the profit,it can be deployed easily, machines do 
not require refreshments and breaks like humans,the machines can be re programmed for work for 
long time without getting bored or tired,the science of robotics and artificial intelligence ca n be 
deployed into mining and other fuel exploration process by this way we can save human life because 
human can make new robots but we cannot make that human, it can be deployed at industries and 
companies . [23] The basic intelligence of teachers has bee n changed by the emergence of artificial 
intelligence. Teachers usually teach students by communicating with them in traditional business 
English teaching. In the application of artificial intelligence products, students can assess their 
learning situation  thus reducing the time burden of teachers to correct their homework, and giving 
teachers more time to understand the students‘ learning situation and adjust their teaching methods 
in time, and teach according to their own abilities. Adopt one -to-one teach ing method to improve 
teaching quality. Artificial intelligence has effectively solved the problems faced by teachers in 
college reforms and improved the teaching of student resourcesand also made up for the defects in 
college business English teachingthus  most English teachers accept and recognize big data and 
artificial intelligence.  
 
Challenges or Dis -advantages of AI  
[24] The problem of unemployment is one of the ethical dilemmas that can be identified.More and 
more work places are being suppressed due  to the development of machines, increasingly 
specialized, has generated that from the industrial revolution to the present.Machines that are ―more 
efficient‖ in economic terms have replaced jobs starting with the less qualified, repetitive jobs and in 
which little reasoning is needed for its execution, even more complex jobs that need surgical 
precision for its performance, and it has made man reinvent himself and learn other more specific 
trades so that they can sell his workforce and thus be able to surv ive in a world that demands money 
to preserve a comfortable lifestyle. That raises the dilemma of what will happen when the machines 
come to replace all the human labour that the industry needs to function? Another ethical dilemma 
faced by today's society is the "humanism" of the human being. Society is currently dependent on 
advance technologies in all aspects, from a mobile phone to machines to maintain an acceptable 
quality of life. This has posed that humanity wonders if freedom has been lost to technol ogy or if it 
is really technology that serves the human being only when he demands it . [25] Some of the main 
disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in our daily lives are it can some timemisused leading to 
mass scale destruction, programme mismatch sometime done opposite to the command, it effects 
human jobs, it caused an increase inunemployment, the creativity is dependent upon the 
programmer, it lacks the human touch, it is helping in making the younger generation become lazy,  
it require a lot of t ime and moneyand it has caused the increase oftechnological dependency . [26] It 
is not easy to develop the machines because the equipment required are expensive, itcan cost lots of 
cash and tons of time to create, rebuild, and repair, Robots are replacing jobs of humans, it is a 
major cause for severe unemployment, unless if humans can fix the unemployment with jobs AI 
can't do or severely change the govt to communism, destruction can be easily caused by machines if 
put within the incorrect hands,that is, a  minimum of a fear of the various humans, AI is making ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
344 humans lazy with its applications automating the bulk of the work,humans tend to urge hooked in to 
these inventions which may cause a drag to future generations,  AI is replacing the majority of the 
repetitive tasks and other works with robots, A bond with humans which is an important attribute 
when involves Team Management cannot be developed by machines,Only those tasks which they're 
designed or programmed to try to can be performed by machines and any thing out of that give 
irrelevant outputs which might be a serious backdrop or crash. [27] The government and schools 
attach great importance to integrating artificial intelligence into business English education but most 
ideas are implemented at the profe ssional level the main reason is that when universities formulate 
talent training programs, the training of artificial intelligence awareness and ability has not been 
really incorporated into vocational education, which has affected the development of prof essional 
talent training objects.Innovation and Entrepreneurship education will be difficult to proceed 
smoothly if the training goal of artificial intelligence is not included in the professional education 
plan.The importance of students' innovation and e ntrepreneurship education has not been fully 
realized by some colleges and universities at present, and usually just hold some lectures to cultivate 
students' artificial intelligence capabilities and awareness, andartificial intelligence education into 
the professional curriculum system is also rarely incorporated. In most business English professional 
colleges, artificial intelligence education is to create some courses related to artificial intelligence on 
the basis of the original business English course s however, in general, these courses have little to do 
with professional courses, they are two independent courses, there is no penetration and good 
integration. Artificial intelligence education is only a superficial form, which is not conducive to the 
development of artificial intelligence training thinking . [28]One of the main disadvantages of 
artificial intelligence is the amount of money it cost for the maintenance and repair. To meet 
changing requirements the software must be constantly updated. Any m achine can fail if we set a lot 
of complex tasks to artificial intelligence. Huge number of consecutive problems can be caused by a 
small error in the calculations this can also lead to loss of important data, which is processed by 
machine. It can lead to unemployment if robots begin to replace a person in each field of activity. In 
addition, a person‘s mental abilities can be reduced, as the need to use their intellect and not solely 
depend on machines.It will cause destruction if military robots fall into  the wrong hand as the 
machine does not think before acting.  
 
Conclusion  
I believe that Artificial Intelligence is at the centre of a new enterprise to build computational 
models of intelligence. The main assumption is that intelligence (human or otherwise ) can be 
represented in terms of symbol structures and symbolic operations which can be programmed in a 
digital computer. Artificial intelligence has many disadvantages along with its advantages and the 
biggest one of the disadvantage is the problem of une mployment so I think we should not solely rely 
on artificial intelligence and also rely on our own intelligence.  
 
Reference s 
Beck, J., Stern, M., &Haugsjaa, E. (1996). Applications of AI in Education.  XRDS: Crossroads, The 
ACM Magazine for Students , 3(1), 11-15. 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
345 Bouletreau, P., Makaremi, M., Ibrahim, B., Louvrier, A., &Sigaux, N. (2019).  Artificial intelligence: 
applications in orthognathic surgery.  Journal of stomatology, oral and maxillofacial 
surgery , 120(4), 347 -354. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53. 
Chen, H., & Wang,  F. Y. (2005). Guest editors' introduction: Artificial intelligence for homeland 
security.  IEEE intelligent systems , 20(5), 12 -16. 
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Chowdhury, M., &  Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence.   
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -375. 
Ding, H. , Gao, R. X., Isaksson, A. J., Landers, R. G., Parisini, T., & Yuan, Y. (2020). State of AI -
based monitoring in smart manufacturing and introduction to focused section.  IEEE/ASME 
Transactions on Mechatronics , 25(5), 2143 -2154.  
Eldrandaly, K. A., Abdel -Bass et, M., & Abdel -Fatah, L. (2019). PTZ -surveillance coverage based 
on artificial intelligence for smart cities.  International Journal of Information 
Management , 49, 520 -532. 
Ganesh, D., Seshadri, G., Sokkanarayanan, S., Rajan, S., &Sathiyanarayanan, M. (2019, December). 
Iot-based google duplex artificial intelligence solution for elderly care. In  2019 
International Conference on contemporary Computing and Informatics (IC3I)  (pp. 234 -
240). IEEE.  
Garbuio, M., & Lin, N. (2019). Artificial intelligence as a growth engine for health care startups: 
Emerging business models.  California Management Review , 61(2), 59 -83. 
Gong, S., Loy, C. C., & Xiang, T. (2011). Security and surveillance. In  Visual analysis of 
humans  (pp. 455 -472). Springer, London.  
Guo, M. Advanta ges And Disadvantages Of Artificial Intelligence In Business English Teaching.  
Kaul, V., Enslin, S., & Gross, S. A. (2020). History of artificial intelligence in 
medicine. Gastrointestinal endoscopy , 92(4), 807 -812. 
Khanzode, K. C. A., &  Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Khanzode, K. C. A., &  Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intell igent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
Luckin, R., Holmes, W., Griffiths, M., & Forcier, L. B. (2016). Intelligence unleashed: An argument 
for AI in education.  
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is  artificial intelligence?.  
Nilsson, N. J. (2009). The quest for artificial intelligence. Cambridge University Press.  
Osipov, S. S., &  Ulimova, N. V. (2013). ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF AI.  
SCIENCE AND WORLD , 77. ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
346 Racine, E., Boehlen, W., & Sample, M. (2 019, September). Healthcare uses of artificial intelligence: 
Challenges and opportunities for growth. In  Healthcare management forum  (Vol. 32, No. 5, 
pp. 272 -275). Sage CA: Los Angeles, CA: SAGE Publications.  
Tao, B., Díaz, V., & Guerra, Y. (2019). Artific ial Intelligence and Education, Challenges and 
Disadvantages for the Teacher.  Arctic Journal , 72(12), 30 -50. 
Waisi, M. (2020). Advantages and disadvantages of aI -based trading and investing versus traditional 
methods.  
Woolf, B. (1991).  AI in Education . Uni versity of Massachusetts at Amherst, Department of 
Computer and Information Science.  
Zang, Y., Zhang, F., Di, C. A., & Zhu, D. (2015). Advances of flexible pressure sensors toward 
artificial intelligence and health care applications.  Materials Horizons , 2(2), 140 -156. 
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
347 TOMORROWS’ WORLD - AI 
 
MARAM SRIVARDHANI  
B.Tech Computer Science  
Email ID: maram.srivardhani2021@vit.student.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence  
[1] Artificial intelligence is study of machines and making brilliant machines and by the form of 
computer languages. It makes our work easier and faster and it also does not restrict the methods 
that are observed biologically. [2] Understanding the problem analyzing the problem and solving it 
in easier steps and making work simpler, solving co mplexed programs with logical understanding or 
logical approach these all comes under artificial intelligence.  
 
History of Artificial Intelligence  
[3] In the history at the beginnings of the AI it is traced to convictions, friction and imaginativeness. 
In most of the earlier inventions there is the involvement of artificial intelligence in the 
understanding program languages, it is used for the trans lation, it helped in learning the basic things 
such as knowledge representation, conclusion reached on the basis of evidence and reasoning in 
such a way it became a keystone in earlier times. [4] Artificial intelligence was familiar to everyone 
in 1950, th ere are several drawbacks and in earlier in extensive acceptance exercise to medicine. All 
the limitations are cleared and modified by the advert of learning. Now after so many changes taking 
place AI is capable to do many things such as over look the algo rithms and learning by self. AI is 
then used in the medical practice even though it is risk, but it is helpful to make work more efficient 
and faster.  
 
Growth of AI  
[5] Artificial intelligence created huge impact on economic growth. Artificial intelligen ce has the 
capability to emulate or copy like human behavior; it is able to achieve huge range of achievements. 
With the help of the AI, we can do the n number of tasks at a time which cannot be performed by the 
human so we can do increase in number of tas ks which is not possible before AI, because multi -
tasking cannot be performed by the human labor. Artificial intelligence can be developed in any 
kind of ordinary production goods also. Now a day‘s everything became automated with AI, it 
created growth on income share and gave an opportunity to come up with new ideas and implement 
them, it is also helped in solving and analyzing the problems. Artificial intelligence became a fast 
self-improving that unbound economic growth. [6] The growth of AI in health ca re is dramatically 
as an individual who creates a business offer solutions that may change how to protect from 
different kinds of health regarding issues likes diagnose and helps to cure from the problem .From 
this article we came to know that examination of AI in medical health care beginners and found 
appear or come out with different business model which helps to bring Artificial intelligence know 
all over the world and bring to the public.AI in a medical care trying to bring out business models 
into all  AI medical care beginners.  
 
AI in Health Care Appliances  
[7] The most important uses of Artificial intelligence in medical is data segregating also keeping 
everything in a order by arranging it and tracing them .It is the initial step of stating the chan ge in ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
348 health care systems, recently AI got a privilege of storing the statistics of medical reports.  It is a 
fantastic health services The one of the prime step in health we segregate all the important  
data ,reports when we make it with the help of Artifi cial intelligence it become easier to order  
them automatically with the help of the robot instead of human even work will done more faster.  
[8] Artificial intelligence is used in taking care of elder‘s health with the help of technology, there 
are times we always may not be with them and they require help from ours we can get to know their 
situation and proctoring them with the help of the machine, it is very helpful for ous in this 
generation in these busy life‘s this helps to ous to give a relation on o ur parents help. Even we got 
monitoring beds for the elders which them to not fall from their bed or maintain a position for sleep 
without moving and gives a relaxed sleep for them .Now a day‘s more and more inventions coming 
in Artificial intelligence we got speech recogniser it recognizes our words understand the human 
commands and perform them as per what we said these work with the help of the artificial 
intelligence and also with the help of internet of things also, so many appliances are controlled by  
artificial intelligence now a day‘s fans, TV and emergency warning alarm and all.  [9] Artificial 
intelligence is used for psychological or mental condition it is used in diabetes it is used for facial 
recognition it helps to identify the face of the patie nt and helps to get his data of previous medication 
and condition of the student. It is also helpful in gathering sorting or segregation the patient‘s photo, 
id, details and previous visits details, their x rays, scanning, medication and all. It helps the work to 
make easier with machine that a human spends so much time with help of machine it is done faster 
and more efficient than human.  
 
Manufacturing and Production in Artificial Intelligence  
[10] Manufacturing and production of Artificial intelligence is  rapidly increasing rapidly with lot of 
new batches of products are coming to satisfy the costumer better. Suppose for a factory we require 
lot of humans for making, packing and segregation of things but now they are making simpler with 
Artificial intellig ence with the help of multi -tasking machines, some more automatic robots and 
machines burden of work is reduced. A new generation machines are done by collaboration and 
more service models which helps to customize our own model for our own way of work. By 
teaching them way of packing, way of arranging, and all. [11] AI created a great sensation such a 
way that each and everyone by knowing or unknowingly involved with Artificial intelligence, it is 
involved in each and every aspect from toys to mobiles. Even  in small exciting automatic toys there 
is an Artificial Intelligence. By making intelligent and customizable machines and providing the 
product to the costumer, [12] when there is a continuous development of in science and technology 
in our day to day lif e ,It is difficult to live without AI in our life .With all these AI machines our life 
became easier than before to do our daily works .The ability of a computer machine to operate or 
access and process information like human beings is called as Artificial  intelligence.  We analyzed a 
vast development in the‘ internet plus AI‘ now a day‘s which can change, model,  process of a 
system.  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
[13] Government is trying to bring Artificial Intelligence surveillance techniques global wi de trying 
to bring into effective action specific policy .Government decided to bring smart city and smart 
world by making the works digitalized like face reorganization which helps to recognize the 
employee as ID, And smart policing by alert,  accountable,  reliable and responsible, The reason Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
349 behind smart policing is finding the persons criminal history for finding more details about the 
victim, crimes that are done by him ,no of times get caught and arrested these all comes under smart 
policing. [14] Due t o the huge development of Artificial intelligence it is being taken by different 
countries they are trying to adopt it to their culture to artificial intelligence from mankind. By the 
decision of corporate AI is coming into their action, AI arm -controlled robots can perform all the 
actions what a human can do in his life due to the higher security problems arising these arm -
controlled robots are used. Not only that now a day‘s Artificial Intelligence came into military also, 
government are very particular a bout military so they wanted to make costly robot which is arm 
controlled and perform all actions that a human does, this decreases risk of the country. [15] During 
the COVID -19 pandemic situation Artificial intelligence came out with their new development s with 
tractile development which depends on 5G, they tried to control the covid internationally with the 
help of this, 5G increases speeds by up to ten times that of 4G, where as mobile edge computing 
reduces latency by bringing computer capability into t he network, closer to the end user, AI I taught 
of training the models about covid treatment to decrease to death rate of covid. But there are two 
disadvantages sue to this situation of covid is keep on changing rapidly so we require to train them 
accordin gly, training in a very short time is very difficult. But it was implemented in some aspects 
such as monitoring or maintaining the personal check of the social distancing, checking the 
temperature and even in different scanning‘s and x rays.  
 
Artificial In telligence in Education  
[16] AIED means Artificial Intelligence in Education, AIEd can provide learning opportunities 
today and in the future. With the goal of increasing everyone's learning and life outcomes. 
Throughout, we've taken the approach of starti ng with teaching and education. And then describe 
how effectively designed and are implemented. Although a few  would possibly  discover  the idea of 
AIEd alienating, the algorithms and fashions  that include  AIEd shape  the foundation  of an  basically  
human endeavor. AIEd gives  the opportunity  of studying  this is  greater  personalized, flexible, 
inclusive, and engaging. [17] The Student  is asked  to clear up  some of  troubles  and to enter  
intermediate hassle  fixing  steps. The tutoring machine  compares the  hassle -fixing  route  accordingly  
generated to a really perfect  route  - primarily based totally  on professional  performance. In general, 
maximum  ITS structures  cope properly  with conditions  where  the student‘s  solution  differs from 
that of the professional  model. If a remediation flow is needed, this takes the shape  of a proof  of 
what step the professional  proposes and why that is  taken into consideration  the proper  step to take. 
[18] Artificial Intelligence has created a huge impact in the education. In some cases it is better than 
teachers what they teach us .It helps to manage a class better than what a teacher can do with the 
most appropriate answers in the simplest steps And also with the minimalistic steps with the 
advanced learning with most intelli gent tutorials .Artificial Intelligence for the best efforts of 
teaching and most experienced and effective teaching.  
 
Advantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[19] In case of decision making Artificial Intelligence  based on the facts whereas decision making 
other than Artificial Intelligence or human decision  have some impact on the emotion and human 
feelings ,so Artificial Intelligence helps better in the decision making than that of human decision 
without any  impact. And in so many other aspects also Artifi cial intelligence helps far better as 
machine need not sleep, whereas human need to sleep and rest due to the stress, restlessness, and ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
350 tiredness due to the work .Where without all these also a machine can work efficiently. [20] 
Artificial intelligence (AI ) packages  are used to simulate human intelligence for both fixing  a 
trouble  and creating a  selection . AI offers  the benefits  of permanency, reliability, and value -
effectiveness at the same time as  additionally  addressing uncertainty and pace in both fixin g a 
trouble  or accomplishing  a selection . AI is rigorous use within side the  Internet together with  in seek 
engines.  [21] Natural language process this means a way it acts as a translator  One of computer 
science's long -standing ambitions is to train computers to understand our language. Natural language 
is the next generation of computer language. Scientists working on Artificial Intelligence have 
succeeded in creating Natural Intelligence. To a considerable extent, the language interface relies on 
a limited vocabulary and syntax. Language in Its Natural Setting.  Processing enables a computer to 
comprehend the key linguistic concepts contained within a query or statement. Its mission is to 
create and build computers that analyse, comprehend, and genera te information. In this case 
Artificial Intelligence helps to convey the human needs better by understanding the way we act and 
the language we speak. [22]  Machine learning has demonstrated its ability to detect and diagnose 
issues in building energy syste ms. This summary was collected or analyzed from last two decades. 
Summarizing the qualities and weaknesses of existing artificial intelligence -based methods and 
identifying the most important future research tasks. First, the difficulties in creating FDD 
approaches for building energy systems are explored. After that, a thorough literature study is 
conducted. All methods are divided into two categories: data -driven and knowledge -based. There 
are many data -driven methodologies, such as classification -based, unstructured learning -based, and 
regression -based. They demonstrated a strong ability to learn patterns from training data. However, 
they require a considerable quantity of training data and have reliability and robustness issues. [23] 
The advantage of Art ificial Intelligence in Fashion. In recent times it was introduced to the fashion 
now a day‘s Firms, particularly fashion companies, are confronted with a new interaction between 
consumers, suppliers, and rivals as the big data era unfolds. Fashion compani es must also manage a 
variety of data with numerous and complicated linkages and dependencies, as well as human factor 
uncertainties. It is critical for businesses to master these data flows in order to make better decisions. 
Artificial intelligence techni ques are very effective in such scenarios. Artificial intelligence's 
possible uses in the fashion sector range from design support systems to fashion recommendation 
systems, as well as sensory evaluation and intelligent suggestion systems.  
 
Disadvantages o f Artificial Intelligence  
[24] Artificial Intelligence have a chance of creating destruction if it is misused or if it is kept in the 
wrong hands ,So we need to properly utilize it in a proper way without misusing it. Responses are 
lacking in creativity an d logical solving. Sometimes it is unable explain logic behind. Currently, AI 
development is reached a point where it can no longer be used. Currently, AI development is 
reached a point where it can no longer be used. When there isn't a solution to a probl em, you'll be 
able to tell. Any malfunctioning on the AI's part could result in it creating, incorrect solutions, and 
since it is unable to describe the Blind reliance on AI can be dangerous since it lacks the thinking 
behind its answer. Common sense plays  a key role in solving a problem in some questions. Artificial 
Intelligence doesn‘t have common sense so it is not able to solve major problem. If given the 
opportunity, it can be used to create massive destruction, [25] if it falls into the wrong hands in  
wrong hands it will be misused and cause as a disadvantage .It causes unemployment because due to 
this work is becoming similar with help of machines and decreasing man power so that it causes Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
351 unemployment. And affects a Human life due to unemployment. Cr eativity is more in programming 
than a human thinking. In that case also a programming is more efficient than human work.  Some 
time it is able to  be misused main  to mass scale ruin, Unemployment trouble  increased,  Creativity is  
depend on  programmer,  Lacks the human touch,  Younger  era turns into  lazy.  [26] This artificial 
Intelligence making youth unemployed and making them lazy due to less jobs it is creating less 
interest towards job. Require time and money, we need to invest so much money on creating 
machines and buying huge machines. Apparatus and equipments to make machines are expensive. 
Tons of amounts to create a successful machine Robotic restore  can arise  to cut back  time and 
people  trying  to restore  it, however  that'll price  extra cash  and resources.  Robots, with them 
changing  jobs, can purpo se extreme  unemployment, until if people  can restore  the unemployment 
with jobs AI cannot  do or significantly  extrade  the government  to communism.  Machines can,  
without difficulty  purpose  destruction, if placed  in the  wrong  hands. That is, not less than  a worry  of 
the numerous  people . As AI is changing  the bulk  of the repetitive obligations  and different  works 
with robots, human interference is turning into  much less  which can also additionally  purpose  a 
sizable  hassle  in the  usage  standards. Every employer  is trying to  alternate  the minimal  certified  
people  with AI robots which can also additionally  do comparable  paintings  with more efficiency.  
[27] Lot of data is required for creating an AI for making it properly and accurately so it‘s time 
consuming and c osts a lot of money. Due to huge growth in AI some companies are trying replace 
their jobs with AI robots this can lead to huge unemployment which may put pressure on countries 
economy. AI machines can cause a lot of destruction, if put within incorrect ha nds, nowadays some 
countries trying to implement AI into nuclear weapons so that they can track enemy with high 
resolution camera and it can hit enemy accurately even if the enemy is moving this may cause lot of 
destruction. Machines can‘t develop bond whi ch is very important during a team management. 
Machines can only perform the task which they designed or programmed for we a machine cross the 
boundaries of the program it may crash or it may give irrelevant output which may cause a 
backdrop. ] Unlike huma ns Artificial Intelligence only works on logic and program so it lacks in 
creativity. Artificial Intelligence can‘t explain the reasoning and logic behind certain decisions, 
Artificial Intelligence always can‘t be perfect it may have errors that can lead t o malfunctioning of 
the system. [13] Another major problems of Artificial Intelligence programs is that if it has bugs it 
may lead to crashing of the system this causes loss important data, every machine can‘t be perfect 
some may have bugs in it and it AI cant correct itself this should be solved in supervision of an AI 
engineer who cost lot of charges for solving the bug this can be more time consuming. Artificial 
Intelligence can turn into threat if it falls to wrong hands which may cause large scale dest ruction. 
AI has no emotion and it only works on logic and program it doesn‘t know what is right or what is 
wrong it just follows the program and the task it‘s made for so There is a fear that if AI robot are 
weaponries‘ then they may cause large destructio n, So if AI falls in wrong hand he may order it to 
do wrong things like robbing etc. this could be a threat to the society.  
 
Conclusion  
My opinion on Artificial Intelligence is there are both Advantages and Disadvantages in Artificial 
Intelligence, But there are more advantages in artificial intelligence as compared to disadvantages, 
In my opinion according to paper the only main disadvantage of artificial intelligence is it should not 
get into wrong hands ,until unless it gets into wrong hands all works  can be done in an efficient 
manner and It maintained a active role in the health decisions eg during the covid times and all, ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
352 during social distancing etc. It maintained key role even in armay at a point of time, the whole world 
became smart world due to AI with the new technologies all devices became voice control and 
device controlled even fans, light and all also became very modern due to Artificial Intelligence. It 
created immense effect on education as the teaching became easier with AI able to monito r huge 
members at a time, able to explain the correct logic behind . As it does not need sleep, rest, food it 
works more orderly.  
 
References  
Aghion, P., Jones, B. F., &  Jones, C. I. (2019). 9. Artificial Intelligence and Economic Growth (pp. 
237-290). University of Chicago Press.  
Allen, G. C. (2019). Understanding China's AI strategy: Clues to Chinese strategic thinking on 
artificial intelligence and national security. Washington, DC: Center for a New American 
Security.  
Andriessen, J., & Sandberg, J. (1999). Where is education heading and how about AI.  International 
Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education , 10(2), 130 -150. 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. ( 2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intelligence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence. Ai Magazine, 26(4), 53 -53. 
Charniak, E. (1985). In troduction to artificial intelligence. Pearson Education India.  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial 
intelligence.  Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -
375. 
Conati, C.,  Porayska -Pomsta, K., & Mavrikis, M. (2018). AI in Education needs interpretable 
machine learning: Lessons from Open Learner Modelling.  arXiv preprint arXiv: 
1807.00154 . 
Feldstein, S. (2019). The global expansion of AI surveillance (Vol. 17). Washington, D C: Carnegie 
Endowment for International Peace  
Garbuio, M., & Lin, N. (2019). Artificial intelligence as a growth engine for health care startups: 
Emerging business models. California Management Review, 61(2), 59 -83.  
Hossain, M. S., Muhammad, G., & Guizan i, N. (2020). Explainable AI and mass surveillance 
system -based healthcare framework to combat COVID -I9 like pandemics. IEEE  
Kaul, V., Enslin, S., & Gross, S. A. (2020). History of artificial intelligence in medicine. 
Gastrointestinal endoscopy, 92(4), 807 -812. 
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Lee, L. W., Dabirian, A., McCarthy , I. P., & Kietzmann, J. (2020). Making sense of text: artificial 
intelligence -enabled content analysis.  European Journal of Marketing . 
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligen t manufacturing: a review. Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering, 18(1), 86 -96.  
Lu, H., Li, Y., Chen, M., Kim, H., & Serikawa, S. (2018). Brain intelligence: go beyond artificial 
intelligence.  Mobile Networks and Applications , 23(2), 368 -375. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
353 Luckin, R., Holmes, W., Griffiths, M., & Forcier, L. B. (2016). Intelligence unleashed: An argument 
for AI in education.  
McCarthy, J. (1998). What is artificial intelligence?.  
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries. In  Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of Defence Delhi . 
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Patel, P., Ali, M. I., & Sheth, A. (2018). From raw data to smart manufacturing: AI and semantic 
web of things for industry 4.0. IEEE Intelligent Systems, 33(4), 79 -86.  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Tawalbeh, M., Quwaider, M., & Lo‘ai, A. T. (2020, April). Authorization model for IoT healthcare 
systems: case study. In 2020 11th International Conference on Information and 
Communicatio n Systems (ICICS) (pp. 337 -342). IEEE.  
Teng, X. (2019, April). Discussion about artificial intelligence‘s advantages and disadvantages 
compete with natural intelligence. In  Journal of Physics: Conference Series  (Vol. 1187, No. 
3, p. 032083). IOP Publishing . 
Wan, J., Li, X., Dai, H. N., Kusiak, A., Martínez -García, M., & Li, D. (2020). Artificialintelligence -
driven customized manufacturing factory: key technologies, applications, and challenges. 
Proceedings of the IEEE, 109(4), 377 -398. 
WATANUKI, K. (2019). Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things and Human -Machine Interface in 
Healthcare and Manufacturing. In The Proceedings of Mechanical Engineering Congress, 
Japan 2019 (p. C12200). The Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers.  
Zhao, Y., Li, T., Zhang, X., & Zhang, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence -based fault detection and 
diagnosis methods for building energy systems: Advantages, challenges and the 
future.  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews , 109, 85-101. 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
354 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
RAJA JAISWAL  
B.Tech. Computer Science  
Email ID: raja.jaiswal2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is an Artificial Intelligence?  
[1] Artificial Intelligence is a part of computer science and engineering which has the capability to 
think like humans, process and execute program to develop a smart software.  [2]. Also AI is defined 
as something which can mimic the characteristics that distinguish humans.Some of the popular AI 
programming languages are python, C++, Java and prolog. In general, AI can be something which 
reduces the w ork load of humans and also decreases the time span to do a particular work, thus, 
making human life easier and reliable.  For example, virtual assisting software like Siri, Alexa, which 
are developed by multinational companies and are smart enough to give appropriate result to 
whatever we ask through voice command. Also software like chrome search engine which 
automatically gives option relevant to what we search. As learning programming related to AI can 
process data analysis with precision and speed beyon d human capacity, artificial intelligence (AI) 
applications and machines have become increasingly common in finance, education, health care, the 
legal system and beyond. However, relying more on AI than human also has risks, especially where 
decisions are made without human permission. Machine learning relies more on pattern -recognition 
within data -sets. Problems arise when the available data reflects societal bias.  
 
History of Artificial Intelligence?  
[3] The beginning of Artificial Intelligence was started with the invention in electronics like 
supercomputers which was IBM 702 and slowly it went on solving problems and developing 
programs which can help in language translation, proving theorem and knowledge -based system.   
[4] Artificial Intelligence was first observed by John McCarthy in the year 1950,however, many 
limitations was observed in the field of medicine at that time. But in the early 2020s, many of the 
limitations were overcome by deep learning and grabbing knowledge in this field. Now Arti ficial 
Intelligence is capable of self learning and understanding difficult algorithmic problem and analyze 
it. During 90s, Many Scientist predicted that the growth of AI machines can be made in no more 
than a generation, also they predicted that this mach ines will be more intelligent, fast and accurate in 
problem solving. So as of now, we can see that whatever prediction were made by them came true 
and now we are living in a world where artificial intelligence and many other technologies has made 
human lif e very easy and convenient. During 1980s, Japanese government invested $400 million 
dollars with the aim of developing a advanced computer which will help in solving logical 
programs. But unfortunately this project failed and most of the ambitious goal wer en‘t met. 
However, this failure has inspired the talented young generation who are in the field of computer 
science, so ultimately this failure was valued and AI fell out under limelight. Now we live in the age 
of ‗Big data‘, an age where huge sum of infor mation are collected and in order to view a particular 
data, AI technology is used.  
 
Growth of Artificial Intelligence  
[5] Artificial Intelligence has the capability of adapting intelligent human behavior or has the ability 
of achieving goals in industria l, medical, educational and even in banking system, which will Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
355 ultimately lead to economical growth. Artificial intelligence does all those work which was 
previously performed by humans labor in the industries to became self -automated. Artificial 
Intellige nce has also played vital rolefor the production of goods and services in industries,and 
thereby impacting in the economical growth and income share.[6]  Artificial Intelligence has also 
shown greattechnological growth in the field of medical science such a s risk analysis,lifestyle 
management and monitoring,health information management and virtual health assistance. 
However, this teleological growth has lead to the increase in unemployment issue and job problems 
for many people. AI has also shown its value in the online shopping sites like amazon, flipkart, 
snapdeal, Alibaba express and many more. Apart from industrial growth, AI can also help in 
creating a sustainable food system that will ensure the quality of food by analyzing the amount of 
fertilizer, an d pesticides used in farm and will also help in increasing the productivity and reduce the 
environmental impact.  Robots could remove weed, lowering the use of herbicides. For example, 
many farms in Europe already use AI to monitor the activities performed by the farmers, 
temperature and feed consumption of the animals, which will ultimately lead to good production and 
great income shares.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Health appliances  
[7] Artificial Intelligence in the field of health care industries as well  as clinical and public sector 
has brought appliances which help in treating different types of disease like cancer,neurology and 
cardiology.It has also brought machines, deep learning and active assisting instrument to handle 
prearranged data.[8]  Artifici al Intelligence can detect patient disease and also provides information 
to the physician so that he can make excellent decision for treating the patient. Present generation 
doctor‘s does not have to learn by heart everything as the digital technology has given liberty to 
focus more on mental energy or high level cognitive tasks and patient concern.[9]  Doctors and other 
medical expert use artificial intelligence to make things more accurate and fast. AI also help bio tech 
scientist to prepare antidote of a particular virus in less time span. During covid -19 period, AI has 
been used as thermal imaging in airports and elsewhere too. In hospital, it has been used to 
recognize the infections from computerized tomography lung scan. Also it provides data to track the 
spread of a particular disease. Presently, Researchers are working on how to develop an AI program 
which will help to analyze large quantities of health data and accordingly can visualize which could 
lead to discoveries of new medicine and way to impro ve individual diagnostics. One of the new AI 
program developed by researchers was answering to emergency call that help to recognize a cardiac 
arrest during the call faster and more frequently than medical dispatchers.In another example, EU 
co-funded KConn ect which is a multi -lingual text that search to give services that help people find 
the most relevant medical information available.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Manufacturing and Production  
[10] Artificial Intelligence in the field of manufacturing and pr oduction has brought remarkable 
change as it has showed increment in economical growth in the past five years.  [11]Artificial 
Intelligence in manufacturing is a general concept under development.It is categorizes into three 
paradigms: digital manufacturing ,digital network manufacturing, and new generation intelligent 
manufacturing.  New generation of artificial intelligence plays important role in the revolution of 
new industry and will continue to be the main source for the transformation and upgrading of t he 
manufacturing and production industries in the years to come.  [12] Large scale industries are ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
356 continuously enhancing and developing new smart machines to increase the number of production in 
less time interval. Also due to this, labor cost decreases lea ding to huge profits. This AI machines 
are programmed in a way that it can sense, learn, analyze, predict and execute to do a particular 
work. AI can help the Indian industrial manufacturers to become more efficient and bring more 
industries in India if th ey use robots for manufacturing purpose to optimize the sale path or by on 
time predicting of maintenance and breakdown in smart factories.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Security and Surveillance  
[13] Human eyes are highly efficient to capture large quantity of low level visual sensory data and 
deliver only those information which are useful to one‘s brain for high level interpretation  
and situation awareness.[14]  Recent development in Artificial Intel ligence has suggested that  
this emerging technology will influence the military power and the world politics more broadly.   
[15] Some schools are acquiring advanced artificial intelligence surveillance technology including 
face recognition and geolocation  tracking device in order to strengthen security so that no intruders 
can get inside the school for bad intentions. Also it helps the faculties in paper checking and 
analyzing each students performance so that they can know each students strength and weakn ess and 
change themselves according to students aspects.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Education  
[16]In the field of education, Artificial Intelligence has wide impact.  
 First, we have to understand the difference between Education Technology (Ed Tech) at large 
and artificial intelligence in education (AIED) specifically. Education Technology (Ed Tech) refers 
to implementation of technologies by students in schools or colleges. The aim of Ed tech is to 
improve the students to learn more efficiently, enhance  their individual skills and also it helps 
reduce the teaching burden on faculties.[17] In the field of artificial intelligence in education (AIED) 
has undergone significant developments over the last twenty -five years. The main aim of AIED is to 
increase the speed and efficiency of work we do in the education field, also it helps the faculties of 
school or colleges to analysis students performance individually.[18] Using AI, Students can get 
education through innovative virtual learning, and data analysis.  Grading and evaluation of paper 
can also be done using Artificial Intelligence.  
 
Advantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[19]Artificial Intelligence reduces the time taken to do a specific work which can either be problem 
solving or decision making. Artific ial Intelligence can be applied in the field of education, medical, 
industrial and also it is used rigorously in the search engines likes chrome, safari.[20]Artificial 
Intelligence can do all the stressful and complex works faster than a human, has less er rors and 
defects, functions is infinite, can also discover things which is not explored and many more.[21]One 
of the most important advantages Artificial Intelligence is that it makes decisions on facts rather 
than emotions, whereas humans decisions are al ways affected either by emotions or by anger. Also 
unlike humans, machines does not need any sleep or gets tired or stressed while playing or 
working.[22]Machine with artificial intelligence has a very advanced brain which can solve 
problems faster than hu mans and will never forget. Artificial intelligence are also used by doctors 
for the early detection of colorectal cancer which was the second ranked worldwide spread cancer 
during 2020.[23] Artificial Intelligence is also used in social media like Faceboo k, Twitter, Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
357 Instagram, and Snapchat where billions of people have an account any of it and all the accounts and 
details are managed and stored by AI in a very efficient way and it analyze many data on the spot 
and show pictures or videos to the newest tren d. Presently, even car have special features like self 
driving, navigation through voice command and many more possible because of AI technology. 
Language translation software like Google translation is also a part of AI which can translate any 
language in to which language language we are comfortable in either by writing or through voice 
command. Under transportation, AI could provide safety, speed and efficiency to rail traffic by 
decreasing the wheel friction, increasing the speed and can also enable auto nomous driving. Using 
wide range of data and pattern recognition, AI could provide early warning of natural calamities and 
can help in sufficient preparation before meeting the consequences.  
 
Challenges or Dis-advantages of AI  
[24] AI machines cannot be easily develop as the equipment required are very expensive, also it 
requires times, energy and human intelligence to make such machine. [25]With the increase in AI 
machines, unemployment can also increase as the works will be done by this machine. Also wi th the 
increase in AI technology, humans are getting lazy specially due to smart phones, internet, etc.[26] 
Increase of Humans dependency on technology can makes humans less creative and also will lead to 
decrease in thinking capacity to solve a particular  problem.[27] The importance of integrating 
artificial intelligence into business English education has not realized by some colleges. The main 
reason is that when college plans for talent training programs, they don‘t take artificial intelligence 
under ma in concern rather they include it into vocational education, which has affected the personal 
development of the students as well as the innovation and entrepreneurship education will be 
difficult to proceed smoothly.[28] Machines are not capable to thing o ut of box and do a particular 
work, they can do only those work which they are programmed for.  
 
Conclusion  
Since we are living in a modern age where artificial intelligence and many other technologies are at 
some peak, so it is very important for us to mak e right use of technologies like Smart phones, 
Laptop, etc and not get addicted to social medias or any other games present in it. Artificial 
Intelligence has both positive and negative impacts on human life. The positive impacts are it has 
made our life e asy as it reduced the time taken to do a specific work. Specially in education, AI 
applications has great potential as it has showed significant improvement in the quality of education 
and enhancing the teaching and learning method. Smart classes, E learni ng, correction of exam 
papers and analyzing student performance are all done by AI. Smart phones and laptops with 
internet connection are great weapons for students as they can learn anything whatever they want to. 
Also it has great impact in industrial, a nd medical science. In industries, large scale work are 
performed by the AI machines and reduces the work load of the workers. And in medical science, 
AI algorithms are used to monitor and take care of patient, diagnosis particular disease, and analyze 
large amount of data through electronic health record to prevent disease and diagnosis.  As of know, 
artificial intelligence can do only those work which they are programmed for. Now, the negative 
impact are, it has made human lazy, increased unemployment as s ome jobs opportunities will be 
taken over by artificial intelligence. For the military purpose, automatic weapons developed with the 
help of artificial intelligence which are programmed to kill and if this technology goes in wrong 
hand could cause mass cas ualties. Moreover, with increase in this type of weapons can lead to AI ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
358 war which will also result in mass casualties.AI has been increasingly involved in the making of 
decision. In many situations, the impact of the decision on people specially women are found to be 
biased mostly in the areas of medical treatment, employment, judicial sentence, etc.. Automated 
decision -making can therefore perpetuate social divides. Countries like Japan, USA, China are 
already strong in digital industry and business to bus iness application. Presently,AI has always been 
a part of the military army and has helped them in them process of catching terrorist either by 
hacking or phishing method. Also in the online platform, AI is programmed to react to unlawful and 
appropriate o nline behavior.  
 
Reference s 
Aghion, P., Jones, B. F., & Jones, C. I. (2019). 9. Artificial Intelligence and Economic Growth (pp. 
237-290). University of Chicago Press.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artific ial 
Intellegence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230. 
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review. Ieee Access, 8, 
75264 -75278.  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues, 6(3), 360 -375. 
Das, S. K., Adhikary, G. N., Islam, M. N., Paul, B. K., & Das, G. G. (2004). Artificial insemination 
(AI) by raw semen: Its advan tages and disadvantages in Deshi chicken (Gallus domesticus). 
International Journal of Poultry Science, 3(10), 662 -663. 
Gong, S., Loy, C. C., & Xiang, T. (2011). Security and surveillance. In Visual analysis of humans 
(pp. 455 -472). Springer, London.  
Guo, M. Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial Intelligence In Business English Teaching.  
Holmes, W., Bialik, M., & Fadel, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education. Boston: Center for 
Curriculum Redesign.  
Johnson, J. (2019). Artificial intelligence &  future warfare: implications for international security. 
Defense & Security Analysis, 35(2), 147 -169. 
Kaul, V., Enslin, S., & Gross, S. A. (2020). History of artificial intelligence in medicine. 
Gastrointestinal endoscopy, 92(4), 807 -812. 
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review. International Journal of Library & 
Information Science (IJLIS), 9(1), 3.  
Kusiak, A. (1990). Intelligent Manufacturing. System, Pr entice -Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.  
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?.  
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries. In Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of Defence Delhi.  
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Newell, A. (1982). Intellectual issues in the history of artif icial intelligence. CARNEGIE -MELLON 
UNIV PITTSBURGH PA DEPT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE.  
Racine, E., Boehlen, W., & Sample, M. (2019, September). Healthcare uses of artificial intelligence: 
Challenges and opportunities for growth. In Healthcare management forum (V ol. 32, No. 5, 
pp. 272 -275). Sage CA: Los Angeles, CA: SAGE Publications.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
359 Rauterberg, M., & Felix, D. (1996). Human errors: disadvantages and advantages. In Proceedings of 
the 4th Pan Pacific Conference on Occupational Ergonomics (pp. 25 -28). 
Roll, I., & Wylie, R. (2016). Evolution and revolution in artificial intelligence in education. 
International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education, 26(2), 582 -599. 
Satpathy, S., Nandan Mohanty, S., Chatterjee, J. M., & Swain, A. (2021). Comprehensive Claims  of 
AI for Healthcare Applications -Coherence Towards COVID -19. In Applications of 
Artificial Intelligence in COVID -19 (pp. 3 -18). Springer, Singapore.  
Schuh, G., & Scholz, P. (2019, August). Development of a framework for the systematic 
identification of A I application patterns in the manufacturing industry. In 2019 Portland 
International Conference on Management of Engineering and Technology (PICMET) (pp. 
1-8). IEEE.  
Sensmeier  J. Harnessing  the Power  of Artificial Intelligence. Management  2017;48:14 -19. Nu rsing  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016], 5(6).  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016], 5(6).  
Tao, B., Díaz , V., & Guerra, Y. (2019). Artificial Intelligence and Education, Challenges and 
Disadvantages for the Teacher. Arctic Journal, 72(12), 30 -50. 
Viscaino, M., Bustos, J. T., Muñoz, P., Cheein, C. A., & Cheein, F. A. (2021). Artificial intelligence 
for the ea rly detection of colorectal cancer: A comprehensive review of its advantages and 
misconceptions. World Journal of Gastroenterology, 27(38), 6399.  
Weinstein, M. (2019). School of Surveillance: The Students' Rights Implications of Artificial 
Intelligence as K-12 Public School Security. NCL Rev., 98, 438.  
Zhou, J., Li, P., Zhou, Y., Wang, B., Zang, J., & Meng, L. (2018). Toward new -generation 
intelligent manufacturing. Engineering, 4(1), 11 -20. 
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
360 THE PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE OF  
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
VAIBHAV SINGH  
B. Tech. Computer Science  
Email ID: vaibhav.singh2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is AI?  
[1] Artificial intelligence is field which consist of production of smart computer and intelligent 
machines or programs. Artificial intelligence is similar to  using computers to understand human 
behavior or their smartness but not restricted to methods that are biologically observable.  
 [2]Artificial intelligence is a part of computer science as it is surrounded by fields related to 
computers, cognitive science  and psychology.  Artificial intelligence mainly deals with the tasks that 
requires human intelligence and smart approach towards that task.  
 
History of AI  
[3] In 1956 John McCarthy become the first person to described the term Artificial intelligence 
whic h caught the attention of researches worldwide and was also discussed at a conference at 
Dartmouth. later next year the first problem solver was tested and McCarty was stated as father of 
Artificial intelligence. LISP (language for creating Artificial inte lligence software) which is still in 
use nowadays for list processing was announced by McCarthy. In 1956 scientist named Herbert 
Simon stated that in next 20 years AI or machines can be able to any work that a man can perform 
but later man of the scientist  realized that an algorithm than can replicate human work cannot exists. 
Today we have different meaning of artificial intelligence which is to produce machines or software 
that can help us in our work efficiently.  
 [4] At the early state of Artificial in telligence it was related to imagination, philosophy and 
fiction. It was also influenced by inventions in electronics and engineering fields. some early works 
in Artificial intelligence were problem solving including basic work in learning, representation of 
knowledge and demonstration with interpretation of programs in understanding language, translation 
and associative memory.  
 
Growth of AI  
[5] the economic progress from last 150 years is driven by automation as industries use steam and 
electricity to au tomate many productions process but artificial intelligence is the next change in this 
process. It can be MRI machine which are used in healthcare, autopilots in cars or machines or any 
software or machine replacing human. AI is not only replacing old meth ods but also providing us 
quality output or products.  
 [6] Artificial intelligence is already impacting productivity of scientists and researchers in 
different fields. AI helps them in searching anything the want from vast knowledge and also 
providing the m new knowledges. Burden on scientists had been reduced a lot. AI also predicts 
which piece of knowledge will be more relevant to researcher or which combinations of existing 
knowledge will be useful to him.  
 
 Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
361 AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[7] Digital consultation - There are some bots made using AI such as Babylon and uMotif that can 
help patients by sending messages to them about their health or can reply queries related to any 
medication, can suggest doses.  
 Robotic surgery - Using AI computer or robot assisted surgery is common nowadays. The 
invention of robot assisted surgery was to overcome limitations of preexisting minimally 
invasive surgical procedures and to support surgeons performing surgery.  
 Management of diabetes - Using AI to analyze or to che ck diabetes of a person help patients 
a lot by reducing the intra and inter -observer variability.  The use of Artificial intelligence 
improves the outcome with more precision and maximum speed. The system named 
Rhythm forecasts and manages blood glucose lev el of people with diabetes, relied only on 
non-invasive biometric sensors and AI.  
 [8]some artificial intelligence tools or applications in cardiac management  
 Support vector machine (SVM) - it is used to solve the classification of two groups  
 Naïve Bayes (NB) -used to learn conditional probability  
 K-means  
 Artificial Neural Networks  
 Gradient Boosting  
 [9] 
 Managing medical records and knowledge  
 Treatment design  
 Different variety of tests  
 Creation of drugs  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[10] Modern manufacturing and production systems are supported by powerful AI or computing 
networks. With the help of sensors, machines, smart devices and people, data is being analyzed 
efficiently and better than ever before. Advanced computation and artificial intel ligence can be seen 
in majority of the manufacturing factories.  
 [11] Artificial intelligence is commonly used in manufacturing and production of food and 
beverages. AI has made a huge impact in food industry as automatic machines can produce good 
quality of product more efficiently and fast than other ways. Standards of food is increasing day by 
day as from cooking to packing everything can be done by machines and also provides high quality 
and healthy food.  
 [12] Artificial intelligence in manufacturing and in factories is helping environment a lot. Not 
only environment but AI is also cost friendly and effective than other options. Using AI makes less 
wastage of raw products which help both environment and the investor.  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
[13] With the day -by-day development in technology and science, security and surveillance are 
becoming easy than before. The invention of unmanned aerial vehicle(UAV) and camera 
surveillance systems (CSS) provided ha huge boost for practical application rel ated to security and 
surveillance. However, there are some risks and challenges such as transmission of data and process 
but we can overcome them in future.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
362  [14] As human surveillance is still required in all surveillance systems, which is very 
challenging but with new advancement in computer science and artificial intelligence can be 
overcome. A CCTV based auto thief detection system with the use of motion sensor which can 
notified the security using the real time movement analysis of any human.  
 [15] There are a lot of applications of artificial intelligence in military and police all over the 
world. Such as in cybersecurity and in defense of a nation. The use of AI in cybersecurity 
surveillance has reduced the number of labor use in surveillanc e. In military defense most of the 
nations are already into robotics or advanced aircrafts to make their defense strong.  
 
AI in Education  
[16] Inclusion of Artificial intelligence in our education system is increasing day by day as most of 
the people dep ends on technology in their daily life. Artificial intelligence in education has its own 
advantages like better understanding to some concepts with animated videos, helping teachers to 
decrease their workload and more. but in classroom AI is having a huge impact than you can think, 
most important is that the relation between teacher and student changing a lot. Nowadays teachers 
are mere facilitators of the learning process, rather than someone who is good at his subject and can 
teach others or solve their d oubts.   
 [17] one of the main drawbacks of addition of Artificial intelligence in education system is 
verbal communication of computers. Communication skills is one of the most important aspect of 
life which is must for any student to grow but computers are weak in  verbal communication whereas 
teachers have many different types of skills both verbal and non -verbal to convey information like 
speeches or gestures which play an important role in education or teaching. To improve verbal 
communication of computers it req uires more money and research which can be improved in 
upcoming years.  
 [18] Twenty years ago,computer -basedtraining (CBT) and computer aided instruction (CAI) 
were introduced in the field of teaching. Both these were the first systems used to make teachi ng or 
education better using artificial intelligence. These systems were based on the instruction given by 
the author not according to particular learner which has changed a lot with time.  
 For example: if question 5th is answered correctly then only go to  10th question otherwise go to 
15th question.  
 This makes a huge impact from one person to another as one can be good as some concepts but 
other can be weak with those. Both CAI and CBT helped some of the learners.  
 All this leads to the research in the fi eld of intelligent tutoring system (ITS) which gives 
flexibility to each student. It provides teaching according to the student‘s need.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[19] Artificial intelligence is getting in our daily life day by day due to its effectiveness, speed and 
accuracy in solving some problems or in decision making. AI is making human life better every day.  
 One of the major examples is our browser or search engine. Every person is dependent on search 
engine for getting their answers or to get some informati on. From news to entertainment or study 
everything is available to us just from one search.  
 Artificial intelligence has already proved itself to us by its ability to solve any type of problem 
accurately or more efficiently than human. AI can easily replac e human staff by giving better 
decision making and fast then humans at any factory or office.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
363  AI can gather data better than anyone and its decision making is far better than human not only 
qualitatively but quantitively also.  
 [20] Some of the advantage s of using Artificial intelligence in libraries are - 
 As we know AI is far better than humans at intellectual tasks and problem solving which gives 
an advantage at the library as AI can give answers to any question more accurately and quickly than 
any othe r option.  
 AI gives support to the staff the library by helping them to store information and providing them 
that when needed. REFSEARCH is a system which can easily help us by providing solution to the 
certain question and also helps student in their stud ies by teaching them reference skills.  
 [21] In 2020 colorectal cancer (CRC) was the second ranked type of cancer worldwide with the 
mortality rate of 12.0 per 100000 people. At its early stage it can be detected and can be prevented. 
With the increase in use of technology in medical science, Artificial intelligence is huge help to 
doctors. Particularly in gastroenterology AI is providing great help. Computer -aided systems are 
used for diagnosis and to improve detection of polyp and its classification to pr event CRC.  
[22] some advantages of AI in cyber security are:  
 AI is commonly used to detect harmful software such as malware, viruses, spyware and more. 
Without AI protection of our devices is near to impossible. As these harmful programs are 
increasing their strength day by day AI is also improving itself.  
 AI is used by governments to predict threats or any cyberattacks. AI can search, scan and gather 
huge amount of information from which can predict lot of attacks. Computers stores lot of 
information c riminals and their past crimes.  
 AI helps government to gather information from social media which can be harmful for citizens 
or can start any attacks.  
[23] Some more basic advantages of Artificial intelligence are:  
 AI can reduce work load on humans by replacing them with machines and also provide better 
results.  
 Using AI in factories can give better result in less time as compared to human workers.  
 We can use Artificial intelligence in deep mining which can give us fuels more efficiently as 
machines c an be replaced but humans cannot.  
 We can expect mistakes from humans but machines are accurate as they are programmed and 
provided some work.  
 
Challenges or Dis -advantages of AI  
[24] some of the disadvantages of Artificial intelligence are:  
 Some of the equipment are pretty expensive which are important to make machines. So, lot of 
money is required to make some machines and, in their repair, more money is needed.  
 Causing destruction is easy with machines if they are used incorrectly.  
 Machines are mainl y programmed to do some specific work but if they are given some different 
tasks sometime machine can crash and will give error.  
 Too much use of Artificial intelligence is making human being lazy and his ability to think and 
do work is also decreasing.  
 [25] Some of the main disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in our daily lives are as 
follows.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
364  Human jobs are most affected by the increasing use of artificial intelligence which leads to 
the increasing numbers of unemployed people.  
 how good the ma chine or program work just depends on the person responsible of coding 
the program.  
 AI is made by humans but still misses the human emotion or feelings touch.  
 AI is making human lives full of comfort but all that comfort also brings laziness to the new 
generation. New generation depends on technology a lot.  
 large amount of money with time is required to make some of the machines to get most 
effective output.  
 Technological dependency increased.  
 [26] In field of medicine and hospitals artificial intelligence  plays a major role. from scheduling 
appointments, scheduling dosage algorithms for any patient or arranging data of all the patients. But 
there are some problems we face in use of Artificial intelligence as some of its practical applications 
are still at early stage and need some improvement.  
 One of the main problems with Artificial intelligence in medical field is lack of human 
emotions, feelings and sometime human intelligence. As use of AI is increasing day by day it is also 
affecting the jobs. Machin es and AI is taking place of many workers not only in factories but in 
medical field also which is not the right thing.  
 [27] Artificial intelligence is great help in education system but there also come some problems 
with involvement of Artificial intelli gence in teaching - 
 Every teacher connects with his student, understands their weakness and strengths on the other 
side robots or machines lacks emotions, machines only work with data and stats. As of now it is not 
possible for any machine to understand what a particular student needs to grow and learn.  
 Nowadays many teachers fear that they can be replaced by machine or robots, which is 
practically not possible as a teacher understand every student, he makes efforts to understand 
weakness of each of his student and what he can do to help him to achieve success.  
 [28]some more disadvantages are - 
 sometime machines can get bugs or error if some difficult tasksare given. These bugs or small 
error can cause consecutive problems and can also lost some of the i mportant data.  
 Military of most of the countries are well equipped weapons or robots made up with Artificial 
intelligence. If by any chance any robot or machine fall in wrong hands, then it can cause huge 
destruction or any attack.  
 
Conclusion  
 In my opinion Artificial intelligence is already changing this world, AI with the ability to do any 
task better than human and without taking any risk just make a difference to this world. with the 
help of Artificial intelligence this world is going to be much b etter place for our future generation. 
Artificial intelligence is having some issue, which must be taken care off. In last 10 -15 year this 
world has changed a lot, mainly because of the new technology and machines.  
 As technology and artificial intelligenc e tend to develop more, humans will be given more 
support to their work. there are some tasks in human daily life which are repetitive and make them 
to same work again and again military and security forces of each country will develop a lot, so that 
they can protect their countries from unwanted terror attacks.  
 There are always some discussions about AI both positive and negative but the positive effects 
of Artificial intelligence have great value than those negatives.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
365 Reference s 
Aghion, P., Jones, B. F. , & Jones, C. I. (2019). 9. Artificial Intelligence and Economic Growth (pp. 
237-290). University of Chicago Press.  
Agrawal, A., McHale, J., &Oettl, A. (2019). 5. Finding Needles in Haystacks: Artificial Intelligence 
and Recombinant Growth (pp. 149 -174). University of Chicago Press.  
Amisha, P. M., Pathania, M., &Rathaur, V. K. (2019). Overview of artificial intelligence in 
medicine. Journal of family medicine and primary care, 8(7), 2328.  
Beck, J., Stern, M., &Haugsjaa, E. (1996). Applications of AI in Edu cation. XRDS: Crossroads, The 
ACM Magazine for Students, 3(1), 11 -15. 
Benko, A., &Lányi, C. S. (2009). History of artificial intelligence. In Encyclopedia of Information 
Science and Technology, Second Edition (pp. 1759 -1762). IGI Global.  
Bhagat, P. M. (202 1). Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230. 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. ( 2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230. 
Çaliş, B., &Bulkan, S. (2015). A research survey: review of AI solution strategies of job shop 
scheduling problem. Journal of  Intelligent Manufacturing, 26(5), 961 -973. 
Chen, M., Liu, Q., Huang, S., & Dang, C. (2020). Environmental cost control system of 
manufacturing enterprises using artificial intelligence based on value chain of circular 
economy. Enterprise Information Syste ms, 1 -20. 
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Chowdhury, M., &Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues, 6(3), 360 -375. 
Guilherme, A. (2019). AI and education: the importance of teacher and student relations. AI & 
society, 34(1), 47 -54. 
Horowitz, M.  C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., &Scharre, P. (2018). Artificial 
intelligence and international security. Center for a New American Security..  
Kakadiya, R., Lemos, R., Mangalan, S., Pillai, M., &Nikam, S. (2019, June). Ai based aut omatic 
robbery/theft detection using smart surveillance in banks. In 2019 3rd International 
conference on Electronics, Communication and Aerospace Technology (ICECA) (pp. 201 -
204). IEEE.  
Khanzode, K. C. A., &Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantag es of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review. International Journal of Library & 
Information Science (IJLIS), 9(1), 3.  
McCarthy, J. (1998). What is artificial intelligence?.  
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its appl ications in Libraries. In Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of Defence Delhi.  
Mohammadi, V., &Minaei, S. (2019). Art ificial intelligence in the production process. In 
Engineering tools in the beverage industry (pp. 27 -63). Woodhead Publishing.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
366 Mohammed, I. A. (2020). ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE FOR CYBERSECURITY: A 
SYSTEMATIC MAPPING OF LITERATURE. ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, 7(9).  
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Nadikattu, R. R. (2017). Artificial Intelligence in Cardiac Management. International Journal of 
Creative Research Thoughts, 5(3).  
Nguyen, M. T., Truong, L. H., & Le, T. T. (2021). Video surveillance processing algorithms 
utilizing artificial intelligent (AI) for unmanned autonomous vehicles (UAVs). MethodsX, 
8, 101472.  
Osipov, S. S., &Ulimova, N. V. (2013). ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF AI. 
SCIENCE AND WORLD, 77.  
Simon, H. A. (1995). Artificial intelligence: an empirical science. Artificial Intelligence, 77(1), 95 -
127. 
Tao, B., Díaz, V., & Guerra, Y. (2019). Artificial Intelligence and Education, Challenges and 
Disadvantages for the Teacher. Arctic Journal, 72(12) , 30-50. 
Viscaino, M., Bustos, J. T., Muñoz, P., Cheein, C. A., &Cheein, F. A. (2021). Artificial intelligence 
for the early detection of colorectal cancer: A comprehensive review of its advantages and 
misconceptions. World Journal of Gastroenterology, 27( 38), 6399.  
Woolf, B. (1991). AI in Education. University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Department of 
Computer and Information Science.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
367 ONE STEP TOWARDS THE NEW ERA  
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
YASH VISHNU CHOPADE  
21BCE0967  
Email ID: chopadeyash.vishnu2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence  
[1] It is one of the branches of computer science which is used to make various type of new 
intelligent machines, and computer programs. but being an artificial thing, it doesn‘t restrict the 
method which is observed biologically. [2] Artificial intelligence is a web of computer science field 
that encourage us to make new intelligence machines that can response, think on their own and 
make decision of what it has to do next without  being dependent on humanartificial intelligence 
word that are artificial and intelligent which has their own specific meanings artificial refers to the 
thing/object which is developed/made by human and intelligence refers to the ability to think and 
make own decision. Thus, the total word artificial intelligence refers to the manmade thing which 
has ability to think. This interesting topic gives an idea that one day machines artificially made 
things/ machines will have a great ability to think and make the ir own decisions or in other words 
that we will be able to imitate the characteristics that differentiate humans. The similar things are 
mentioned in old mythology and other scriptures, artefacts and literature as well. Now days artificial 
intelligence is able to do reasoning, planning of various plans, explain data structure, pretending 
outcomes. Depending on these methods statistics and probability are done.  
      
Histo ry of Artificial Intelligence  
[3] Artificial intelligence was like imaginary thing to e very person until some scientists come with 
an interesting idea which was about artificial brain. First research about artificial intelligence 
wereheld in the Dartmouth college around 1965. But while doing so they came up with lot of 
difficulties and didn‘ t succeed in first few attempts. Then government started to force them to stop 
their work cause they thoughts it was only waste of money and time. But Japanese scientists realize 
the importance of this revolutionary technique and started work again after 7  years again. Which 
inspire and give new hopes to government various industry again. [4] according to research George 
Boole was the first man who express the concept logical reasoning in 1847. After this the next 
person who start research on artificial int elligence was Alan Turing who described the concept of 
tuning machine in 1936. After that in 1950 Alan characterized the definition for determine the 
concept whether the software is intelligent or not. According to Alan‘s theory the software 
intelligent be havior is similar to the human intelligent capability. He said that software could be this 
much intelligent that the people can‘t even determine whether he is chatting to other human or 
machine. And this test he called Turing test. If the software were abl e to pass all the test then that 
was recognized as intelligent software and also get honor of being called intelligent agent.  
 
Growth of AI  
[5] At the first it was believed that artificial intelligence was limited only for limited works but 
making this assumption all wrong it has proven that artificial intelligence can be use in various 
number of industries. Artificial intelligence has also great role in business. Now it can complete ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
368 various algorithm within a second which is more accurate than any human  being that is the reason 
why AI is in lead. Now days it has shown his big role in health care, entertainment, research fields 
etc.[6] Various industries and companies started to hire robots or any other artificial brains to make 
their jobs easier and way faster than humans which give them more profits compared to humans in 
the interview Mr. Nick smith which has spent quarter of century in computer designing stated this 
problem that artificial intelligence is growing way faster than human imagination which can actually 
will make others human jobless.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare Appliances  
[7] like in industries and computer field artificial intelligence has also shown various miracle in 
health care industry. It seems that Ai will make a whole revolution in this field also. This hope has 
led to grow focus and investment in artificial intelligence medical appliances from both government 
organization and technological companies. However, there are some concerns about this also these 
are Lack of tr ansparency with specific AI algorithms, privacy concerns with the data used for 
training AI models, And safety and liability issues with AI application in the clinical 
environment.[8]Pressure, defined as the ratio of the area to which force is used, is ubi quitous in the 
basic operations of nature and human society because of their vast use in personal electronic gadget 
and industrial monitoring. Rapidly updating electrical sensorics techniques and organic electronics 
have given their contribution significan tly to the development of flexible pressure sensors, with 
unique advantages such as excellent flexibility, low cost and compatibility with large area 
processing techniques.Particularly, many flexible pressure sensors constructed on organic matter 
have been  developed, and their sensing capabilities extend beyond the human skin, the largest 
sensory organ with thousands of specialized pressure -sensing receptors.Through the integration of a 
large area of elastic devices, active sensing matrix has been created w hich is an ideal candidate for 
electronic skin (e -skin) applications.Interest in integrated networks of sensors is also driven by 
promising applications in intelligent robotics,biomimetic prostheses, human -machine interaction, 
which greatly promote the adv ancement of artificial intelligence systems.Biomonitoring the health 
with the use of mobile in medical diagnostics and health care is another attractive application for 
pressure sensors. Organically made pressure sensors are not made to take the place of s ilicon -based 
devices it is made to full fill the niches in next generation various type of portable and wearable 
health care products for which low cist excellent foldability and light weight are highly desired.  [9] 
societal concerns like systems level ope rations, Operations, or innovations like personalized 
medicines are used to be addressed by the health data stored in artificial intelligence. so that doctors 
can check or search the specific file about what they are tackling which make them doing this eas y 
and time saving.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[10] Increasingly ubiquitous and powerful computer network support modern productions and 
logistics systems. Sensors, machines, smart devices, systems constantly create tons of data in this 
network. By  the use of this computational capabilities this data can be analyzed more broadly, faster, 
and deeply than ever before.  With such great process it has redefined the value of artificial 
intelligence (AI) technology and opened a new era known as Industry 4. 0 or Smart Factory.[11] 
According to research done on application of artificial intelligent technology in the field of 
manufacturing industry in last few years, it is seemed that there is rapid development of core 
technology in new field of Internet plus A I, that is one of the factors which is profitably affecting the Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
369 ecosystems of manufacturing, means, change in models, as well as development of AI.In terms of 
new development of both AI technologies and applications, broad market demands were provided 
by the continuous evolution of smart cities, intelligent transportation, intelligent robots, intelligent 
logistics, self -driving vehicles, smart economies, intelligent toys, smart communities, intelligent 
medical care, and smart -phones etc  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
[12] Artificial intelligent has not only made our life more convenience but also made us feel safe by 
creating various security tools. Artificial intelligence is an essential part of making out nation safer. 
Serious national security operation s in the context of various data and technical domain challenges 
can benefit from creating intelligence and security information science research disciplines. [13] 
Cyber surveillance is moving towards the use of Artificial intelligence which is causing les s labor -
intensive than the traditional human surveillance methods that it has augmented or replaced. The use 
of machine learning can give speed to this trend which need the resources of large corporations or 
nation -state levels within the reach of small or ganizations or individuals. [14] In the terms of 
ambident data and connections, code driven system has reached to the more than half of the 
population of the earth, with the presenting the unimagined opportunities and the unexpected risks to 
human society.  Artificial intelligence is getting a rapid speed particularly in industrial construction. 
But this unusual use of artificial intelligence in  cyber -attacks appeared to be rather frightening. The 
thought of a machine that enhances one's self -knowledge throu gh self -learning becomes 
sophisticated to attack things is a terrible problem for the cyber world. Most of the time, this 
artificial intelligencebased cyber -attacks are carried out using advanced malware that involves 
advanced theft techniques to avoidsecu rityperimeters.Traditional cyber security methods are failed 
to counteract these attacks. To address these issues, a strong transport classification system using 
Principal Component Analysis and Artificial Neural Network is proposed to provide intensive 
monitoring.Further, the proposed method aims to expose the various artificial intelligence based 
cyber -attacks with their present -day impact and their future. The simulation is done using a self -
developed autonomous agent that learns on its own.  
 
AI in Educa tion 
[15] Humans are making use of application AI in education and it has been subject for research for 
more than 30 years now. In order to support lifelong learning and formal education traditional 
classes or workplaces are explored by these areas. Psycho logy, education, linguistics, neuroscience, 
anthropology and sociology are combined by AI to promote the development of AI. Which is 
inclusive, personalized, conducive environment learning, other AIED tools attractive, flexible, and 
interdisciplinary in it self.[16] Computers have been used in various industries and various medical 
fields but in the field of education computer has been used almost for 20 years now. Computer based 
training (CBT) and computer aided instruction (CAI) were the first system devel oped in order to 
attempt to teach using computers. But it has some faults the instructions were not separated to 
learners need. In this type of systems, the learner‘s ability were not considered. Simple example for 
this is ‗if question 21 is answered go to  question 54 otherwise go to question 32‘. [17] Now days 
artificial intelligence is contributing a lot in education field. The term intelligent tutoring system 
(ITS) is often used in regard to the engineering side system competitional methods are used to 
explore and evaluate various alternative theories about learning. Noe scientists are  trying to develop 
such system with can contain greater knowledge about domain increase reasoning ability about topic 
selection and response generation.    ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
370 Advantages of AI  
[18] Artificial intelligence (AI) applications are used to imitate human intelligence for decision 
making or problem solving. Benefits of permanence, reliability, and cost -effectiveness, and also 
addresses uncertainty and speed in either solving problems o r reaching a decision are provided by 
AI. AI has been used in various fields such as, economics, linguistics, engineering law, 
manufacturing and medicine and for various modeling, prediction and decision support and control 
applications.[19] This is how Ar tificial Intelligence (AI) is defined Intelligence displayed by an 
artificial element to solve difficult problems and such a system are generally assumed Having a 
computer or machine. There is a huge advantage of artificial intelligence That his decisions are 
based on facts Emotion. It is a well -known fact that even after our tireless efforts, human decisions 
are always affected The negative path of your emotions, unlike humans, artificial intelligence 
machines do No need any type of rest it can work contin uously without any hesitation, thus the loss 
in this works is so less compared to human work.[20] Artificial intelligence has powerful capacity to 
detect and analyze errors in building energy systems. It has powerful capacity in learning pattern 
form the a vailable data which make work easy and need less workers and less time.[21] The robotics 
field is frequently described as a subgroup of artificial intelligence that is related Sensitive and 
motor functions. A mechanical device robot is a performs automatio n works, either under and type 
of human guideline or pre -defined program or general set Guidelines, by the use of artificial 
intelligence techniques.[22] In this world of big data era, companies and especially fashion 
companies are facing new type of commu nication between consumers, competitors and suppliers. 
Fashion companies have to arrange different types of data complex interactions and uncertainties 
related to their dependencies and human factors. in order to optimize their decision making It is 
requir ed for fashion companies to master this flow of data. That‘s why this new technique artificial 
intelligence can be profitable for fashion industries.  
 
Challenges or Dis -advantages of AI  
[23] scientists have studied and suggested some challenges according to him one of the challenges is 
the need to establish a new discipline based on human innate ability, a framework for humanities 
that prepares students to compete in the labor market in which intelligent machines work together 
with human‘s professional. He nce the need and challenges of new literacy for higher education: - 1) 
technological literacy to know how their machines work; 2) data literacy to manage the flow of large 
volumes of data; 3) Designed to work in human literacy, anthropology, communication and as a 
human being.[24] Even though school and governments shown great importance to the inclusion of 
artificial intelligence in industrial English education, most of the ideas are executed on a 
professional level. The main reason is that when universiti es hold talent training programs, artificial 
intelligence recognition and competency training are not really included in professional education, 
which has affected the development of vocational talent training items[25] The biggest challenge 
faced by firms  and societies is to leverage the benefits of AI technology, to create greater 
opportunities for both new products / services and vast productivity improvements, and to avoid the 
risks and disadvantages of rising unemployment and wealth inequality.[26] Som e of the main 
disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in our daily lives are.(a)Some time it can be misused 
leading to mass scale destruction, (b)Creativity is depend upon programmer,(c)Younger generation 
becomes lazy,(d)Technological dependency incr eased(e)Human jobs affected, (f)Program mismatch 
sometime done opposite to the command, (g)Unemployment problem increased,(h) Require a lot of Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
371 time and money, (i)Lacks the human touch,[27] some disadvantage of artificial intelligence 
according to governmen t/economy issue: (a) Equipment is so expensive that is a bit difficult to 
arrange money to build machines.(b) It can cost lot of cash and times to create repair and rebuild. (c) 
Robots are replacing humans that‘s why problems of unemployment are causing.(d ) If this 
technology goes to wrong hands, it can cause lot distraction it is one of the fearin human mind. (e) 
At the worst -casescenariowhile having internal difficulties it can leak people‘s personal data to 
another countries. Or it can delete the whole s tored data which could be useful in future.  
 
Conclusion  
The modern technique developed by scientists called as artificial intelligence is use full to humans in 
various ways like in medical field it is used to make new devices that can be used to cure patie nt and 
lower the risks of death in lots of conditions and make doctors work easy it also save the date of that 
particular operation so that the new comers doctors can learn them. In industrial use it is used to lift 
various heavy loads as well as make new devises according to the data imbedded into them by 
engineers. It is also used in modern education systems to make the studies easy for the students to 
learn is has developed various way to make study easier like forming slides, shortening the various 
large formulas. In security fields human has developed lots of gadgets using artificial intelligence 
like cctv cameras, various types of automatic guns, satellites that observes whether the enemy 
military has entered in our border.This artificial intelligence is getting the faster growth as compared 
to other fields but it is said that the coin has two faces so it also has some disadvantages within it 
like it is making the human lazy to do any work, due to use of artificial intelligence in various 
companies lots  of people has loosen their jobs, the most danger we have due to artificial intelligence 
is the other countries are making bad use of this to steal other country‘s personal data like military 
power. So in my opinion artificial intelligence is like a miracl e that help us to make our life easier 
but only when we use it properly otherwise it can even make someone‘s life hell.  
 
References  
Aghion, Philippe, Benjamin F. Jones, and Charles I. Jones. 9. Artificial Intelligence and Economic 
Growth. University of Chi cago Press, 2019.  
Arivudainambi, D., Varun Kumar KA, and P. Visu. "Malware traffic classification using principal 
component analysis and artificial neural network for extreme surveillance." Computer 
Communications 147 (2019): 50 -57. 
Beck, Joseph, Mia Stern, and Erik Haugsjaa. "Applications of AI in Education." XRDS: Crossroads, 
The ACM Magazine for Students 3.1 (1996): 11 -15. 
Benko, Attila, and CecíliaSikLányi. "History of artificial intelligence." Encyclopedia of Information 
Science and Technology, Se cond Edition. IGI Global, 2009. 1759 -1762.  
Bhbosale, S., V. Pujari, and Z. Multani. "Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial Intellegence." 
Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal (2020): 227 -230. 
Charniak, Eugene. Introduction to arti ficial intelligence. Pearson Education India, 1985.  
Chen, Hsinchun, and Fei -Yue Wang. "Guest editors' introduction: Artificial intelligence for 
homeland security." IEEE intelligent systems 20.5 (2005): 12 -16 
Chien, Chen -Fu, et al. "Artificial intelligence  in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, 
applications, and case studies." (2020): 2730 -2731.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
372 Chowdhury, Mashrur, and Adel W. Sadek. "Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence." 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transp ortation issues 6.3 (2012): 360 -375. 
Guo, Meng. "Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial Intelligence In Business English 
Teaching."  
Horowitz, Michael C., et al. Artificial intelligence and international security. Center for a New 
American Security., 20 18. 
Khanzode, Ku Chhaya A., and Ravindra D. Sarode. "Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review." International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) 9.1 (2020): 3.  
Li, Bo -hu, et al. "Applic ations of artificial intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review." 
Frontiers of Information Technology & Electronic Engineering 18.1 (2017): 86 -96. 
Luckin, Rose, et al. "Intelligence unleashed." An argument for AI in Education 18 (2016).  
Makridakis , Spyros. "The forthcoming Artificial Intelligence (AI) revolution: Its impact on society 
and firms." Futures 90 (2017): 46 -60. 
McCarthy, John. "What is artificial intelligence?." (2007).  
Mogali, Shivaranjini. "Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries." Conference: 
Bilingual International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and 
Tomorrow, At Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of 
Defence Delhi. 2014.  
Reddy, Sandeep, et al. "A governance model for the application of AI in health care." Journal of the 
American Medical Informatics Association 27.3 (2020): 491 -497. 
Smith, Nick. "Interview: Automation threatens all our jobs, says Martin Ford." Engineering & 
Technology 11.2 (2016): 50 -53.  
Strong, A.  I. "Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies." Science [ETEBMS -
2016] 5.6 (2016).  
Tao, Barrios, V. Díaz, and Y. Guerra. "Artificial Intelligence and Education, Challenges and 
Disadvantages for the Teacher." Arctic Journal 72.12 (20 19): 30 -50. 
Thomassey, Sébastien, and Xianyi Zeng. "Introduction: Artificial Intelligence for Fashion Industry 
in the Big Data Era." Artificial intelligence for fashion industry in the big data era. Springer, 
Singapore, 2018. 1 -6. 
Woolf, Beverly. AI in Edu cation. University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Department of Computer 
and Information Science, 1991.  
Zang, Yaping, et al. "Advances of flexible pressure sensors toward artificial intelligence and health 
care applications." Materials Horizons 2.2 (2015): 1 40-156.[9]Winter, Jenifer Sunrise, and 
Elizabeth Davidson. "Governance of artificial intelligence and personal health information." 
Digital policy, regulation and governance (2019).  
Zhao, Yang, et al. "Artificial intelligence -based fault detection and diag nosis methods for building 
energy systems: Advantages, challenges and the future." Renewable and Sustainable Energy 
Reviews 109 (2019): 85 -101. 
 
View publication statsISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
40 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  IN CYBER -DEFENSE   
TECHNOLOGIES  
 
JAYADEV  C.K 
 
KEVIN GLADIUS  
Email ID: jayadev.ck2018@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Abstract  
One of the most important things in the world, today is privacy. More than essential things such as food, 
shelter, etc., people need to worry more about invasion of their private life. With the advancement of 
technologies to provide us more comfor t in our lives, even the bad side of it has surfaced more. Hackers use 
more complex algorithms to crack a network and steal very sensitive and confidential data, which might affect 
a single person or sometimes as large as a country. In this paper, we are g oing to see about the importance of 
cyber security and the various technologies involved in it and also how the advancement of artificial 
intelligence, machine learning and its related concepts improve cyber -defense. Every technology has 
drawbacks. So we w ill also look into the different issues we face while using AI including the risks in using 
them too. While trying to prevent network intrusion, we leave all our information to a software which is 
unpredictable and difficult to comprehend how it thinks.  
Keywords : Artificial Intelligence, AI, Cyber -Defense, Privacy, Network Intrusion, Cyber security, Machine 
Learning  
 
Introduction  
The seamless connectivity between the systems of the dynamic world needs a very effective defense 
system.  The technologies involved are progressively improving day by day with the increasing 
demand for privacy, money policy, information sharing and so on. 'Artificial Intelligence' is a boon 
for the cyber - security companies to provide the user everything mentioned above. Why i s this 
required? The human mind is not capable of performing various complex tasks at the same time.  
The various ways in which an infiltrator might breach into a secured system is an example of a 
situation like that. AI will take care of this by reading th rough all possibilities of a breach by using 
concepts such as brute force protection in real time. This will not only help in getting rid of an 
individual's cyber risks but also protecting the ultra -sensitive information possessed by 
organizations, governm ents, and armies which shouldn't be leaked to the general public. The 
complete avoidance of human intervention can lead to improved defensive technologies like 
detection and prevention of network intrusion and fraud, botnet detection, an eye over hacking 
entities and much more. is all possible due to the of AI as these algorithms concepts like 
computational, fuzzy logic, intelligent agents, immune systems, data mining, pattern recognition, 
etc., In the year 2016,  almost  3 billion  accounts  of 'Yahoo!'  were  compromised conveying all 
information such as email addresses, passwords, date of birth and contact information to the netizens 
thereby flooding the internet. Incidents like these can be avoided if there was an active supervision 
on all gateways that are br eachable and a  swift  response  to any breach  by quarantining  any malware 
present. This paper will feed you all the information about how these kinds of issues can be resolved 
using Artificial Intelligence and will give  you more  insight  about cybersecurity n eeds and demands 
and also the disadvantages of involving AI in catering these needs.  
 Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
41 Literary Survey  
[1] There are a lot of different ways in which cyber security can be boosted with the help of 
computational intelligence. Some of which are fuzzy logic, a rtificial immune systems, neural 
networks, machine learning, etc., But any cyber defense system can‘t beat the human immune 
system. The mechanism in which our body works to defend our system is so perfect that its quite 
impossible to mimic it into an algor ithm but at least some concepts injecting vaccine so that our 
body can learn how to attack a pathogen can be taught to a computer hence forming a more capable 
defense system.[2] Many problems occur in the world of the internet. In brief it can be listed as  in 
five ways, firstly the problem cyber threats making the life of common people hectic. The advanced 
persistent threats which can even provoke a situation of national security.The lack of research in the 
field poses a huge problem as no one knows what is  happening to their system. The only way to 
solve such threats is to improve the technology of artificial intelligence and implementing in the 
domain of security.[3] On implementing artificial intelligence in cybersecurity there would 
obviously be problems  waiting to attack the developer. But what if the problem was not on 
implementation and what if there was a problem but the AI fixes it on its own, meaning the systems 
is completely functioning on its own then who is governing its actions. The concept of 
psychopathology is used in this kind of cases. There would always be some kind of fault modes in 
an intelligent machine, maybe some kind of interpretation is wrong or the process is done for a 
different application entirely or there is an entirely a differe nt kind of problem. When this type of 
problems arises is it right to let the AI to function on its own and fix it? These types of problems are 
new and requires a lot of research in the field such as‖ psychopathology of AI‖ as this is not just 
about an AI b ut it also concerns for the use of cybersecurity as well.[4] Along the advancing of 
artificial intelligence implemented in cyber defense, the different types of problems that occur also 
tend to improve. One of them is the DDos attacks or ‗distributed denia l of service‘ attacks. 
Basically, these programs get inside a network and start putting up unnecessary authentication of 
accessing data that might even be visible publicly and ultimately disable the entire network system. 
So, problems like these arise ever y now then but solutions are also created, might not be immediate 
but very soon. Like this there are many obstructions to improvement and to cross all these 
obstructions AI seems to be the answers by many developers because the use of machine learning 
unde r AI will never fail to succeed if implemented properly. Learning how the attacks happen and 
how to stop a malware will eventually beat it.[5] Cyberbullying can be seen an aftereffect of one‘s 
cyber defense system fails to tackle a malware or a break in. M any different people and companies 
are affected by this means, leaving their private information in jeopardy to the open internet. Of 
course, cyberbullying doesn‘t consist of only blackmail or hacking into private systems to make an 
entity unstable, it als o consists of crimes like cyberstalking, unparliamentary comments and 
discrimination in social media, copyright crimes, etc. Now how to avoid these types of crimes. 
Common sense reasoning in cyberbullying is basically figuring out which content is bad or g ood 
based on the rules set by the society or oneself. Implementing this to tackle cyberbullying can be 
done through machine learning and hence the reason for AI to be best solution to stop 
cyberbullying.[6] Many economic and environmental factors pressure building operators and owners 
to adopt ‗IoT‘ into their buildings. This has led to increased cost savings, power efficiency and 
process visibility. But integration of these technologies poses various design and cyber security 
challenges. We need to absolut ely consider these challenges because failure can result in mass 
deaths and leakage of information. The various technologies that are used are CCTV motion ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
42 detection, RFID tokens and environment monitoring systems. In addition to this, research is being 
done on sensors which use artificial intelligence. They gather behavioral data, which can precisely 
predict why or how the society might react to a particular situation. Advancement in this field of 
work can lead to the development of a system that can learn to recognize patterns to respond to 
threats immediately.[7] Security used in communication is the main reason for cyber -attacks rather 
than hardware failure. Research is going on in identifying the failure in the system. This is where AI 
comes in. Machine learning helps AI to learn from data and access time. The human brain is not 
capable of detecting varieties of variables at the same time. It faces difficulty with coping up with 
environments which different while decision making. That‘s why AI is used. On e of the most 
important processes in network security is intrusion detection. So, we create an intrusion detection 
system. It actually works in a very interesting way. It monitors the network by checking whether the 
system is overloaded. If it‘s the case, the AI will collect all the connected systems‘ information. This 
is very efficient because system‘s execution will not be affected during the process.[8] The safety of 
AI can be improved by the ideas of cybersecurity experts. But any security system has a chance of 
failure which is inevitable. And when a super intelligent system fails, the consequences will be 
catastrophic. There has been a lot of incidents at which AI has failed. Deadly accidents have been 
caused in the earlier days of AI. The failures can  be classified into mistakes caused during the 
performance and learning phase. The incidents were such as, a software learned to cheat instead of 
making discoveries, a nuclear attack warning system falsely alerted that a nuclear attack is taking 
place, etc ., In addition to AI failing to protect a network, AI itself could be a threat to the network. 
We haven‘t got lots of ways to analyze, monitor and visualize the performance these security 
systems. Because we don‘t even know what the software will do after it runs.[9] One of the fields 
that could be the most benefitted by Artificial Intelligence is cyber security. Since, when the first 
DoS attack happened in 1988, there has been a large number of cyber -attacks. Security systems 
should constantly adjust to th e changing environment. As a lot of flexibility and adaptability is 
needed, humans alone can‘t find and fight these threats. And when AI was discovered, it was 
thought that it could break all these boundaries. There is a large amount of data, and the data was 
transferred at high speeds. The heterogeneity of the sources of data also made it difficult for humans 
to gather cyber intelligence. These issues could be easily mitigated through Artificial Intelligence. 
Neural networks that could learn and process da ta exactly like the human brain uses past network 
attacks and activities to prevent future exploits. But any system has drawbacks. AI has drawbacks 
such as data privacy, lack of regulations and ethical concerns.[10] The solutions for preventing 
cyber secur ity incidents is becoming more and more complex. So, it‘s hard to develop a code that 
can fight these attacks. So, the code needed can only be developed by a being which can process 
data faster than a human being. And that‘s where AI comes in. But as many institutes have 
predicted, rapid development of computing intelligence will occur soon. They fear that a 
‗Singularity‘ might occur i.e., AI becoming smarter than humans. But before all that AI‘s cyber 
capabilities should not become accessible by offenders (hackers, phishers) as the tech might help 
them more in breaking into user accounts and leaking sensitive information.  
 
Findings  
The development of artificial intelligence is substantially increasing as the day goes along with it we 
have the different types of malware are also improving. So, from this we see as the technology 
increase in defending our systems there will also be prob lems arising in it too. We found different Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
43 types of problems are improving like DDos, forced authentication, intrusion algorithms and much 
more. But the ways to tackle such problems are also found like brute force management, application 
of computational i ntelligence which has a sub category of neural networks, artificial immune 
systems, fuzzy logics to create confusion to malware and of course machine learning as well. 
Several technologies in IOT, RFID, CCTV are also used in our day to day life and providi ng 
security to these is one of main implementation of AI. Cyberbullying is also seen to be decreasing 
due to this and many theories like common sense reasoning is also used. Many industrial, private 
sectors are affected by network intrusion and till now th e only reputed solution to solve all these 
problems is the implementation of AI defense.  
 
Recommendations and Conclusion  
The number of cybercrimes are increasing very rapidly. Many companies have provided their 
products and support to stop all these. To f ind a prominent end to this impossible. The human mind 
will never be able to comprehend all types of possible breaches in a network system but an AI can. 
On the contrary AI itself can be a threat to network and its related entities too. The laws in cyber 
crime are not that helpful as if you don‘t know who to blame then you can‘t keep anyone responsible 
to the damage caused. Hence there should be a governing body always looking through the wide 
network, the internet, to subdue these kinds of problems. Moreov er, the governing body can find 
people who are indulged in such crimes and then correct their morals and use them as resources to 
fight cybercrimes with the continuous support of artificial intelligence.  
 
References  
Anitha, A., Paul, G., & Kumari, S. (201 6). A Cyber defence using Artificial Intelligence. 
International Journal of Pharmacy and Technology, 8(4).  
Atkinson, D. J. (2015, March).Emerging cyber -security issues of autonomy and the 
psychopathology of intelligent machines. In  Foundations of Autonomy and Its (Cyber) 
Threats: From Individuals to Interdependence: Papers from the 2015 AAAI Spring 
Symposium, Palo Alto, CA. http://www. aaai. org/ocs/index. 
php/SSS/SSS15/paper/viewFile/10219/10049  
Dasgupta, D. (2006, October). Computational intelligence in c yber security. In Computational 
Intelligence for Homeland Security and Personal Safety, Proceedings of the 2006 IEEE 
International Conference on (pp. 2 -3). IEEE.  
Dinakar, K., Jones, B., Havasi, C., Lieberman, H., & Picard, R. (2012). Common sense reasoning  
for detection, prevention, and mitigation of cyberbullying.  ACM Transactions on Interactive 
Intelligent Systems (TiiS),  2(3), 18.  
Mittu, R., & Lawless, W. (2015, March). Human factors in cybersecurity and the role for ai. 
In Foundations of Autonomy and It s (Cyber) Threats: From Individual to Interdependence, 
AAAI Spring Symposium Series  (pp. 39 -43). 
Mylrea, M., &Gourisetti, S. N. G. (2017). Cybersecurity and Optimization in Smart ―Autonomous‖ 
Buildings. In Autonomy and Artificial Intelligence: A Threat or Savior? (pp. 263 -294). 
Springer, Cham.  
Patil, P. (2016). Artificial intelligence in cybersecurity.  International Journal of Research in 
Computer Applications and Robotics,  4(5), 1 -5. 
Rajbanshi, A., Bhimrajka, S., & Raina, C. K. (2017). Artificial Intellige nce in Cyber Security  
Wirkuttis, N., & Klein, H. (2017). Artificial Intelligence in Cybersecurity. Cyber Intelligence, and 
Security Journal, 1, 21 -3. 
Yampolskiy, R. V., & Spellchecker, M. S. (2016). artificial intelligence safety and cybersecurity: a 
timel ine of AI failures. arXiv preprint arXiv:1610.07997.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
44 THE WORLD OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
SHREYA MANGAL  
B. Tech Computer Science  
Email ID: shreya.mangal2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence?  
[1][2] Artificial Intelligence is a field of research in science and engineering which focuses on 
understanding intelligent behavior. [3] Intelligent behavior not only means being capable of solving 
highly complex problems, but also being able to converse,  see, walk; in general, being able to 
perform tasks which most humans easily can. [2] AI is dedicated to the creation of smart machines 
and programs that can not only solve difficult problems, but also can perform human like tasks.  
 
History of AI  
[4] The word Artificial Intelligence may be very recent, but the idea of machines or automated 
systems can be seen since ancient times. In one of his poetry, Homer mentions chairs called ‗tripods‘ 
that were automated. He also mentions ‗golden attendants‘, that wer e capable of movement. Many 
more such examples can be seen depicted in the paintings, sculptures and books of olden times.  
 In 1495, Leonardo Da Vinci, created designs for a robot, that was very life -like. He never 
brought his design to reality, but according to his sketches it was capable simple movement. [6] In 
1642, a mechanical calculator was invented by Blaise Pascal. It was named as the ‗Pascaline‘. This 
was followed by the creation of ‗Step Reckoner‘, an improved calculator, by Gottfried Leibni z in 
1673. [4] In 1738, Jacques de Vaucanson, a French inventor, created a mechanized duck. It was 
capable of simple motions and could also make duck -like sounds. These two inventions are the most 
notable of the many that was created during this period. Ot her than these actual inventions a lot of 
artists depicted automated machines and robots in their plays, stories and paintings.  
 [5][6] The first person to develop a language for logical reasoning was George Boole. After this 
development, in 1847, Alan M. Turing, a mathematician, built the first automated machine called 
Turing -machine in 1936, which succeeded in decrypting German intelligence messages in 1941 
during World War II. In 1944, Eckert and Mauchly succeeded in developing ENIAC (Electronic 
Numerato r, Integrator and Computer). This was followed by Walter Pitts and Warren McCulloch‘s 
design of an artificial neuron. Donald Hebb modified the design of the neuron in 1949, granting it 
with the possibility to learn. Finally in 1951, the first ever neural c omputer was built by Dean 
Edmonds and Marvin Minsky.  
 [5] John McCarthy was the first person to define the term Artificial Intelligence, which brought 
the concept of human -like, smart machines to limelight. Within a year, researchers succeeded in 
creating  and testing the first problem solver, a machine that is capable of solving general problems.  
 [5][6] McCarthy, the father of Artificial Intelligence, in 1957, developed a language named 
LISP. It was capable of designing AI software. In 1961, T. Evans cre ated a program called 
‗ANALOGY‘, that was able to solve analogical problems seen in IQ tests. A program named 
‗STUDENT‘ was developed by D. Bobrow in 1964. This program was capable of solving algebraic 
word problems as this program could understand human l anguage to some extent.  
 In 1967, a few knowledge -based programs came into picture; ‗DENDRAL‘ for scientific 
reasoning, ‗MACSYMA‘ for mathematics and ‗Mac  Hack‘ for chess -playing.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
45  ‗ARPANET‘ was established in 1969. It was the predecessor to the internet. In the same year a 
mobile intelligence named ‗Shakey‘ was created. This was followed by the creation of ‗AARON‘ in 
1971. This was an automated art -program created by H. Cohen. In 19 72, Alain Colmerauer, built a 
programming language called PROLOG. Few years later, in 1981 AI was commercialized.  
  
Growth of AI  
[6] The type of AI, being researched on, has been continuously changed, due to both further 
advancements in sciences and setba cks faced by the researchers and inventors. [7] The journey of AI 
development was not smooth; 3 major setbacks occurred within 60 years. The first setback was in 
1973 when AI development was still in its infancy. A report was written and published by James  
Lighthill highlighting the hindrances in the growth of AI in the fields of automation, robotics and 
medicine particularly the central nervous system. In his report James called for the termination of 
the AI related researches being carried out in these fi elds. 
 The second failure occurred when the development of a fifth -generation AI came to naught, in 
Japan even after spending 850 million dollars till 1992. The research to develop this smart computer 
began in 1982. The goal was to create an AI that was ca pable of speech and listening. It should also 
be able to gather, extrapolate and process knowledge.  
 The creation of Cyc, an encyclopedia of knowledge by Stanford University marked the third 
setback in the growth of AI. Its creation began in the year 1984 and waned out by the late 1900s. 
The goal was to create an AI that was capable of inferring data to a human -level. It was able to store 
large amounts of data and could also be linked to external databases like DBpedia, Freebase and 
Central Intelligence Age ncy (CIA), but it failed to reach its actual goal. Despite these setbacks AI 
has continued to develop through the years. Even now its continuously evolving, depending on the 
needs of the era.  
 [8] During the early years of AI development, focus was on cre ating machines or systems that 
could play games and solve logical or mathematical problems. This was due to the fact the scientists 
of that time considered intelligence, synonym to being able to solve complex problems. Keeping this 
theme in mind, ‗The Logi c Theorist‘, an AI program was created that could solve and find proofs for 
equations, sometimes much better than the already found proofs. ‗GPS‘, another AI program was 
created during the same time and could solve toy problems. AI programs that could play  Checkers 
and Chess were also developed. In 1952, Arthur Samuel designed a Checkers‘ playing software, 
where two copies could play against each other. They were capable of learning from each other. In 
1962, his Checkers‘ program defeated the former Checker s champion.  
 By the mid -1950s, focus in AI research shifted to strong AI that could imitate a human‘s mind. 
‗Eliza‘, an AI program developed by Joseph Weizenbaum in 1966 was capable of holding 
conversations with patients and could do a passable imitation of a psychologist. It was only able to 
do a passable imitation as it lacked emotions.  
 Other than these AI programs, systems that could solve practical problems were also developed. 
For example, ‗Dendral‘, an AI software which was developed in 1965 by Stan ford University. It 
used knowledge of basic chemistry and mass spectrometry graphs to study unknown organic 
molecules. ‗Macsyma‘, an AI system created by Carl Engelman, is also an example of such systems. 
It was able to solve problems on integration.  
 After this in 1960s, focus was changed to bottom -up approach from top -down (Strong AI) 
approach. Keeping this trend in mind few developments in the fields of neurons and learning were ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
46 made. This includes the creation of ‗perceptron‘ by Frank Rosenblatt. Th is was followed by the 
beginning of AI Winter in the 1970s, during which AI development suffered major setbacks as 
described earlier. Though there were setbacks, researches in some fields of AI continued. This 
includes evolution of expert systems like ‗MYC IN‘.  
 The AI Winter ended around the late 1980s, after which focus was diverted in creating Weak 
AI, i.e., AI systems that concentrated on solving particular problems. New fields of research were 
introduced as well. Most notable of them was research on An t Colony Optimization (ACO), a 
biological field.  
 [9] Development of AI has shown tremendous growth since the beginning of the 21st century. It 
is the era of interdisciplinary science. New researches in fields of cybernetics, linguistics and 
automation are  continuously being going on. New online systems like AMiner, Google Scholar and 
Microsoft Academic Services were developed to provide people access to scholarly big data.  
 [7] Nowadays there is rarely any sector that has not incorporated AI systems. From  industries to 
homes, AI can be seen everywhere. Many large technical firms like Google, Twitter, Microsoft, 
Apple and Intel are all incorporating AI. Google has boasted use of deep learning in many of its 
research projects. Recently Microsoft created ‗Xia obing‘, a robot that could chat. It is also working 
on incorporating AI technologies in the internet through LinkedIn application. IBM‘s Watson 
system is now being used in hospitals to scan for cancer histories in the patients‘ family. This helps 
in provid ing required treatments and can even prevent the cancer from reaching severe stages. 
Further research in various fields is continuously being carried out.  
  
AI in Healthcare and Medicine  
[10] Leonardo Da Vinci can be considered as the great mind behind de velopment of AI in 
healthcare. A lot of robotic models used in healthcare are created on the basis of the designs 
sketched by him. AI is used in medicine and healthcare in two ways; virtual and physical.  
 AI can be used to provide active counsel in treatme nt decisions taken by the physicians. They 
can be also used in the management sectors; the best example being electronic records of patients. 
This constitutes the virtual method of incorporating AI in healthcare. Usage of robot in taking care 
of patients e specially the elderly patients and robots acting as assistants to surgeons forms the 
physical method. [11] Intelligent prosthetics are also a part of the physical method of usage of AI in 
healthcare. [10] Nowadays, ‗nanorobots‘ are used as drug delivery sy stem. They are able to target 
specific areas in the human body to supply the required drugs.  
 [11] Nowadays, appointments to a hospital can be scheduled online. Reminders of follow -up 
check -ups and vaccination due dates especially for children are done usi ng AI. ‗DXplain‘ is an AI 
system developed to generate a list of differentials based on the patients‘ symptoms. It basically acts 
as guide to a doctor in their treatment decisions. It is also used to educate the medical students. 
Germ  watcher is an AI software that spot and analyze hospital acquired infections. It was created by 
University of Washington. ‗Babylon‘ is another AI system which allows people to consult their 
doctors online. It also has the feature to monitor a person‘s health. ‗Ai  Cure‘ is a software developed 
by The National Institute of Health. It is capable of monitoring patients‘ medicine usage using 
webcam of smartphones. It prevents people from disobeying their doctor‘s orders.  
 [11] [13] AI systems are also being used in therapy to tr eat social anxiety especially in youth at 
an early stage. Most of the AI systems that can be used to treat mental health problems are still in Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
47 development; the best example being ‗MOST‘ (The moderated online social therapy) project. Till 
now, it has been s uccessfully applied in six studies, though it is still in development.  
 [14] AI through the usage of its sub -field Machine Learning (ML) is able to identify suicide risk 
factors, which can be used to further program an AI to find individuals who are at a suicide risk in 
the near future, thus being able to provide them with appropriate medical care. This has not been 
fully perfected, but researches are going on to make it more reliable.  
 AI has been implemented in suicide management. They help in evaluating  patients‘ and 
suggesting treatments and follow ups. They also screen individuals at imminent suicide risk, thus 
helping in providing immediate care.  
 As a part of helping in preventing suicide AI that are able to hold conversations using text or 
voice ha ve been developed. They are able to talk to individuals and act as conservational agents.  
 [11][12] Intelligent health trackers like Apple watches and Fitbits can keep track of one‘s sleep 
levels, heart rates, activity levels and even ECG. These are very h elpful as they give the medical 
practitioners an idea about the overall health condition of the patients. ECG tracking is especially 
helpful as it helps in early detection of Atrial Fibrillation. The best example of AI software that 
keeps track of a patien ts‘ ECG is ‗Kardia‘ created by ‗AliveCor‘. Similarly, blood glucose level 
tracking AI monitors are also in use. They help people in keeping track of their glucose levels 
enabling them to regulate their blood glucose. This helps in reducing the chances of a  hypoglycemic 
episode.  To detect epilepsy seizures, a monitoring device named ‗Embrace‘ was developed. It was 
created by ‗Empatica‘. It can be worn on the wrist and on detection of a seizure it sends an alert to 
one‘s relatives and doctors, along with the person‘s location.  
 [11] The field of surgeries was revolutionized with the invention of The Da Vinci robotic 
surgical system. It was created by Intuitive surgicals. It has mechanized arms that can imitate a 
surgeon‘s hand motions with much better precisio n. It also provides a magnified 3D view of the area 
where surgery needs to be performed, thus providing assistance to the surgeon. It especially proved 
to be helpful in the fields of urology and gynecology.  
 [12] Gastroenterologists have successfully empl oyed artificial intelligence to detect various 
ailments. They make use of artificial neural networks for image processing in ultrasound and 
endoscopy. They are able to detect colonic polyps as well as diagnose ailments like atrophic 
gastritis.  
 Thus, impl ementation of these smart machines in health care is beneficial and increases 
efficiency of the medical system. New advances are continuously made in this field.  
  
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[15] The incorporation of artificial intelligence in industries have revolutionized the manufacturing 
and production process. Development of sensor technologies and computing methods have resulted 
in smart and efficient manufacturing. Nowadays, artificial intelligence systems are used to analyze 
and monitor manufacturing processes. They are also capable of making decisions in regards to the 
processes without human input. Using these robotic AI systems that can process data and connect 
industrial devices in Manufacturing and Production is referred to as Smart Manufacturing.  
 [16] Manufacturing and Industry 4.0 is the new system of technology incorporated with AI that 
can be used to enhance manufacturing processes. Though still developing, it has been adopted by a 
number of industries now referred to as ‗Lightho use‘ industries, and have proved to be beneficial. It 
has also improved productivity, flexibility, and the speed of production. Improvement in quality of ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
48 goods produced was also seen. This improvement in quality has been achieved through the 
implementation  of prognostic and health management systems that continuously observe the 
industrial plant set -up, and alerts the personals when maintenance is required.   
 [17] Nowadays, Distributed Artificial Intelligence system is in use in many production 
companies. I t follows a hierarchical pattern to solve problems. It performs its functions by breaking 
down the problem into small sections or parts. Each part is then handled by one of its agents and 
together these smart agents reach to a solution. Actually, these age nts list out all the possible 
solutions of the problem. A fuzzy coordination system then selects the most appropriate solution to 
be implemented.  
  
AI in Security and Surveillance  
[18]AI is very useful in detecting and thus preventing terrorist attacks. A I systems can analyze 
activity and communication patterns at a much more rapid pace than when done manually. This 
enables the targeted countries to take timely measure and save thousands of lives. Infrastructures 
like bridges and roads are likely targets o f terrorist activities. Having AI surveillance that can 
identify suspicious behavior and alert the required personnel in timely manner, is beneficial and can 
prevent deaths of hundreds.  
 [19] Incorporating Artificial Intelligence in the various robotic sys tems already in use in the 
military will increase its efficiency and strength. AI with webcams or motion detecting sensors will 
be beneficial in collecting information. [20] Small robots with sensors capable of hiding themselves 
in strategic positions can be deployed to gather data. Larger robots with the ability to supervise the 
smaller ones should also be used. These larger robots must be capable to commute the gathered 
information to the required personnel. Such a system increases the efficacy and effici ency of defense 
tremendously. [19] Currently, neural networks are in use to classify images gathered by drones.  
 Artificial Intelligence systems are also beneficial to Homeland and Border security divisions. To 
detect false distress signals at the coast, US government employed the usage of voice recognition 
systems that are able to create a physical profile of the person on the basis of voice. AI systems were 
able to analyze information gathered by Transportation Security to detect transport of illegal ite ms. 
AUDREY is an AI capable of suggesting course of action to fire  fighters in real -time, ensuring 
maximum efficiency in a safe manner.  
 
AI in Education  
[21][22][23] Over the years a lot of development has been made in the field of Artificial Intelligence  
so as to improve the education sector. These improvements have been proved to be beneficial to not 
only students but also teachers. In general, robotic and automated teaching systems have been 
introduced into the education system. These help in personaliz ing the teaching -learning process as 
well as reducing the instructors‘ workload through automated evaluation of students‘ answer sheets. 
Some of the software‘s like ‗TurnItIn‘ and ‗Ecree‘ are also able to check the originality of students‘ 
works.  
 [21][22]  AI also forms the backbone of Natural Language Processing (NLP), which is the key 
factor behind the intelligent tutor systems. These systems are capable of personalizing learning. 
They are also capable of answering deep questions, create logical questions  and develop self -
reflection in the users. ‗Cognitive Tutors‘ for mathematics and science and ‗Auto  Tutor‘ for physics, 
computers and learning critical reasoning are examples of such a system. ‗Auto  Tutor‘ is a dialogue -
based intelligent tutor system.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
49  [23] Nowadays, assistant robots called ‗cobots‘ are being incorporated in the education sector to 
assist the teachers in teaching, especially kids. This assistance involves helping the kids learn their 
spellings and pronunciations. AI educational networks lik e ‗Squeeze  Net‘ and ‗Mobile  Net‘ can be 
accessed through smartphones. They are highly convenient and are capable of providing interactive 
and personalized learning.  
 
Advantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[24] AI technologies and applications can provide pe rmanency. For example, in an organization 
some intelligence was developed by a group of people. Without the use of AI, this knowledge would 
be lost as in a few years or so the group of people may not be available to the organization. AI is 
capable of stori ng this knowledge permanently till the data is not disrupted.  
 It is also capable of improving on the data by learning from the real -world. This is called 
‗reinforcement learning‘. It makes the knowledge or application more reliable, thus increase in its 
usage.  
 AI can also be cost efficient. They can minimize cost by reducing the staff and their working 
hours. AI is also capable of decision making by analyzing both quantitative and qualitative data. It is 
also able to take into account the real -life uncer tainties.  
 The solutions or decisions made by AI are not only more reliable but also faster, as the AI is 
able to analyze data much faster than human mind. So complex problems can also be solved in a 
short amount of time.  
 [25] No matter how hard one trie s, human decisions are never based on hard facts. Emotions 
always play a part in making decisions. On the other hand, AI is capable of making decisions solely 
based on facts.  
 Transfer of knowledge is much faster in an AI. It takes seconds to pass new know ledge gained 
by an AI to other machines, unlike when a person is needed to be trained in some field of 
knowledge.  
 Unlike humans AI systems do not get tired, thus increasing the number of hours worked. This is 
especially helpful in Manufacturing and Produc tion sector.  
 [26] AI is able to solve even the complex problems easily and in a short amount of time. The 
probability of success is high as well. The calculations are prone to have less errors. Multiple 
problems can also be solved at the same time.  
 AI systems can be used to explore unexplored areas like deep oceans and space.  
 [11] Being precise and accurate, AI can be used for diagnosis of diseases or ailments. AI are 
capable of learning from successive cases. They are able to store and access vast amo unt of 
information in a matter of seconds. All these results in efficient diagnosis.  
 Using AI in healthcare in the form of monitoring system to keep an eye on the patients proves to 
be highly beneficial, as it reduces workload and allows the doctors to g ive more time to the critical 
patients. AI do not require rest thus they are able to monitor patients more efficiently than humans.  
 [27] Use of AI in education proves to be highly beneficial mainly due to the flexibility it offers. 
The students are able t o choose their own course; they are able to decide the timings and place of 
learning depending on their situations. It also enables the student to access a varied variety of study 
materials.  
 During learning, using AI technologies most of the conversions, whether it be with the 
automated system or the teachers or other learners are through the mode of texting. This gives a 
chance to even the social anxiety prone students to clear their doubts and participate in discussions 
easily.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
50  Learning using AI systems  is also cost effective. It saves travel costs as well as costs of hiring 
academic staff and creation of school or college campuses. Problems due to shortage of teachers and 
professors is easily rectified by incorporating AI technologies.  
 [28] The major a dvantage of machine learning a sub -branch of AI is that it is able to analyze 
complex and large amounts of data in a short time. This is especially beneficial to the Manufacturing 
Industry where analyzing large amounts of data is extremely important.  
 AI systems are also capable of self -learning at least to some extent. This is advantageous when 
dealing with dynamic and complex data, as the norm in manufacturing industries.  
  
Disadvantages or Challenges of Artificial Intelligence  
[24][25] One of the ma jor drawbacks of AI is that one can never be sure whether the AI program 
will reach to a definite and useful solution. Also, we are unable to see the internal intricacies that the 
program used, to reach the solution, i.e., AI is unable to explain the logic  behind its solution. While 
solving a problem the mathematical way each step is clearly seen and can be separately analyzed 
unlike in the case of AI softwares. As AI cannot explain the reasoning behind a particular solution, 
one can never surely tell if th e answers are even correct. This causes many problems.  
 [25] AI will soon start replacing humans in many fields, as AI technologies can perform the 
employees‘ job much more efficiently. This will result in mass -scale unemployment, leading to 
increase in cr ime and poverty. It can also severely affect mental health by causing anxiety, stress and 
depression in many.  
 [26][29][32]AI itself is not creative, all the creativity lies in the hands of the programmer. Thus, 
AI must be specifically programmed to comple te certain creative tasks. Also, incorporation of AI in 
day-to-day life as part of smart phones or smart home devices makes the people lazy and increases 
the dependency on technology. This dependency on AI technology will lead to its excessive use, 
resulti ng in people getting addicted to it. This addiction can result in several health problems 
especially mental health problems. Its excessive use can result in loneliness, which in turn can cause 
increase in anxiety levels.  
 Also, we store our contacts and ot her private information on them, which in wrong hands, can 
lead to breach of privacy and other problems.  
 [27][31]Use of AI in education can be disadvantageous as well. Using AI technologies for 
learning requires immense concentration and motivation on the  part of the learner. It is easier to get 
distracted during online learning as compared to classroom learning. Most communications are 
through texting thus, hampering a student‘s communication skills. It also limits firsthand experience, 
causing problems i n learning some concepts which are better learned through hands on experience. 
AI solely relies on data provided, to create personalized learning programs for the students. If there 
is an anomaly in the data, or the data lacks knowledge regarding the obsta cles experienced by 
minority students, it will hamper the learning process.  
 [30] Automated Banking System can be very disadvantageous. It can severely disrupt the day -
to-day processes of the bank. It lacks the human touch, which can prove to be a hindran ce, 
especially in the selling of various policies. Also, AI will not be able to make decisions in certain 
situations, that require a human‘s thought process. Fully automated banking system will lack 
supervision, thus requiring a higher number of safety pro tocols, lest chances of robbery or 
embezzlement increase.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
51  [25][29] A failure in algorithm of AI especially in defense and healthcare sectors can lead to 
loss of multiple lives. Wrong diagnosis due to error in data fed to the AI can cause very severe 
probl ems. If fed wrong data by the enemy, AI in military system can cause disastrous effect. In the 
wrong hands, it can also lead to mass destruction.  
 [32] AI is advancing more rapidly in developed countries like USA and Japan as compared to 
developing countri es. In the near future this may result in rifts between these countries. This can 
lead to a lot of fear and confusion along with many political problems.  
  
Conclusion  
Artificial Intelligence has already established its roots in various fields. More and mor e AI 
techniques are continuously being developed and researched on. Healthcare, education, transport 
and various other fields have evolved immensely. All of these advancements are aimed towards the 
betterment of human society.  
 From the data gathered we ca n say that Artificial Intelligence is a boonas well as a bane. In my 
opinion, its advantages outweigh its drawbacks. If judiciously used with proper rules and regulations 
AI can lead to a new era of technology. It has the capability to make human life easi er and better. It 
also has the capacity to revolutionize various domains especially healthcare and education. By usage 
of AI, space exploration can reach new heights.  
  
References  
Alzaidi, A. A. (2018). Impact of artificial intelligence on performance of banking industry in Middle 
East.  International Journal of Computer Science and Network Security , 18(10), 140 -148. 
Amisha, P. M., Pathania, M., & Rathaur, V. K. (2019). Overview of artificial intelligence in 
medicine.  Journal of family medicine and primary care, 8(7), 2328.  
Arkorful, V., &Abaidoo, N. (2015). The role of e -learning, advantages and disadvantages of its 
adoption in higher education.  International Journal of Instructional Technology and Distance 
Learning , 12(1), 29 -42. 
Benko, A., & Lányi, C. S. (2009). History of artificial intelligence. In  Encyclopedia of Information 
Science and Technology, Second Edition  (pp. 1759 -1762). IGI Global.  
Briganti, G., & Le Moine, O. (2020). Artificial intelligence in medicine: today and 
tomorrow.  Frontiers in medici ne, 7, 27. 
Charniak, E. (1985).  Introduction to artificial intelligence . Pearson Education India.  
Cheatham, B., Javanmardian, K., &Samandari, H. (2019). Confronting the risks of artificial 
intelligence.  McKinsey Quarterly , 1-9. 
Chen, H., & Wang, F. Y. (200 5). Guest editors' introduction: Artificial intelligence for homeland 
security.  IEEE intelligent systems , 20(5), 12 -16. 
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review.  Ieee Access , 8, 
75264 -75278.  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial 
intelligence.  Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -
375. 
D'alfonso, S., Santesteban -Echarri, O., Rice, S., Wadley, G., Lederman, R., Miles, C., ... & Alvarez -
Jimenez, M. (2017). Artificial intelligence -assisted online social therapy for youth mental 
health.  Frontiers in psychology , 8, 796.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
52 Ertel, W. (2018).  Introduction to artificial intelligence . Springer.  
Fonseka, T. M., Bhat, V., & Kennedy, S. H. (20 19). The utility of artificial intelligence in suicide 
risk prediction and the management of suicidal behaviors.  Australian & New Zealand 
Journal of Psychiatry , 53(10), 954 -964. 
Hamet, P., & Tremblay, J. (2017). Artificial intelligence in medicine.  Metabol ism, 69, S36 -S40. 
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., &Scharre, P. (2018).  Artificial 
intelligence and international security . Center for a New American Security..  
Hwang, G. J., Xie, H., Wah, B. W., &Gašević, D. (2020). Vi sion, challenges, roles and research 
issues of Artificial Intelligence in Education.  
Jones, M. T. (2008).  Artificial intelligence: a systems approach . Laxmi Publications, Ltd..  
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Art ificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library & 
Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Lee, J., Singh, J., &Azamfar, M. (2019). Industrial artificial intelligence.  arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1908.02150 . 
Liu, J., Kong, X., Xia, F., Bai, X., Wang, L., Qing, Q., & Lee, I. (2018). Artificial intelligence in the 
21st century.  IEEE Access , 6, 34403 -34421.  
Luan, H., Geczy, P., Lai, H., Gobert, J., Yang, S. J., Ogata, H., ... & Tsai, C. C. (2020). Challenges 
and future di rections of big data and artificial intelligence in education.  Frontiers in 
psychology , 11. 
Malik, G., Tayal, D. K., & Vij, S. (2019). An analysis of the role of artificial intelligence in 
education and teaching. In  Recent Findings in Intelligent Computing  Techniques  (pp. 407 -
417). Springer, Singapore.  
McCorduck, P., &Cfe, C. (2004).  Machines who think: A personal inquiry into the history and 
prospects of artificial intelligence . CRC Press.  
Mohammadi, V., & Minaei, S. (2019). Artificial intelligence in the production process. 
In Engineering tools in the beverage industry  (pp. 27 -63). Woodhead Publishing.  
Nilsson, N. J. (2009).  The quest for artificial intelligence . Cambridge University Press.  
Pan, Y. (2016). Heading toward artificial intelligence 2.0.  Engine ering , 2(4), 409 -413. 
Ramesh, A. N., Kambhampati, C., Monson, J. R., & Drew, P. J. (2004). Artificial intelligence in 
medicine.  Annals of the Royal College of Surgeons of England , 86(5), 334.  
Rouhiainen, L. (2018).  Artificial Intelligence: 101 things you m ust know today about our future . 
Lasse Rouhiainen.  
Rybski, P. E., Stoeter, S. A., Erickson, M. D., Gini, M., Hougen, D. F., &Papanikolopoulos, N. 
(2000, June). A team of robotic agents for surveillance. In  Proceedings of the fourth 
international conference  on autonomous agents  (pp. 9 -16). 
Shih, W., & Srihari, K. (1995). Distributed artificial intelligence in manufacturing systems 
control.  Computers & Industrial Engineering , 29(1-4), 199 -203. 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & as sociated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Wuest, T., Weimer, D., Irgens, C., & Thoben, K. D. (2016). Machine learning in manufacturing: 
advantages, challenges, and applications.  Production & Manufacturing Research , 4(1), 23 -
45. 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
53 EVOLUTION OF THE  COSMOS  
 
ADRIJA CHAKRABORTHY  
Email ID: adrija.chakraborty2018@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Abstract  
This document provides a brief discussion of the various theories and factors describing the evolution of the 
universe as a whole. We  have discussed the various possibilities put forward by scientists concerning the 
formation of stars, galaxies, matter as well as the evolution of energy and extraterrestrial life. The document 
also throws light on the various problems we are facing today  to answer some of the key questions about the 
evolution of the cosmos and how the unification of Physics can help us to solve these problems.  
Keywords : big bang, big crunch , red-shift, wormholes , general relativity, gravity . 
 
Introduction  
The evolution of the universe – right from it‘s beginning, it‘s development and end – has been one 
of the most absorbing questions  that human beings have thought of. We go about our daily activities, 
giving little thought to how the forces of nature work t o give rise to sunrise and sunset, the lunar and 
solar eclipses, the changing of seasons, the formation of day and night and ultimately help to sustain 
our existence. Since the time, the earth -centric model was proposed by famous astronomers like 
Aristotle  and Ptolemy, a number of theories have been proposed by several scientists for the 
beginning and end of the universe. In this paper, we wish to discuss some of those theories in detail.  
 The general theory of relativity together with quantum mechanics has  been one of the most 
powerful tools to explain the mechanism of the evolution of the universe. Nevertheless, there are 
many discrepancies regarding the true nature of the universe as scientists still argue whether the 
universe did have a beginning or it e xisted all the time, whether it is static, chaotic, symmetrical or 
unsymmetrical, if it did have a beginning will it re -collapse again and what was there before the 
beginning of space and time, is it a universe or a multiverse that we live in and many more  similar 
thought -provoking questions.  
 The answers to all these questions involve a thorough understanding of the nature of the 
infinitesimally small to the infinitely large. Recent breakthroughs in technology have given us 
valuable clues to answer these questions to some extent yet there is so much left to be discovered.  
 Another longstanding mystery is the presence of dark matter that occupies about 85% of the 
universe, along with the existence of black holes  and gravitons. It is widely believed that all  our 
misconceptions can be cleared and the mysteries can be unfolded if we are able to frame a complete 
unified theory of Physics that unifies all the fundamental forces of nature – the weak and the strong 
nuclear force, the electromagnetic force and the g ravitational force. Out of these forces, the first 
three have been unified to form the Grand Unified Theory (G.U.T) whereas we have not been able 
to include gravity in it because the quantum theory of gravitons is not yet known.  
 The main difficulty of not being able to include gravity is that general relativity does not contain 
the main  feature of quantum mechanics – the uncertainty principle. This makes the G.U.T 
unsatisfactory to explain the different phenomena of the universe. It may take us a long way  to find 
a theory that unifies gravity with the other forces. Nevertheless, our deepest desire for knowledge is 
the sole justification for continuing this unending quest to completely understand the universe where 
we live.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
54  The reason for selecting this to pic is to discuss the advantages and drawbacks of the various 
scientific theories that have been proposed to explain the evolution of the universe, keeping in mind 
that none of these theories can be completely approved or totally rejected without any firm physical 
and experimental evidence. The paper also takes an in -depth study of the formation of stars and 
galaxies as well as the evolution of life in other parts of the universe.  Besides, the paper aims to 
draw the attention of the readers to how space -time continuum gives us a better understanding of the 
universe and it sultimate fate.  
  
Literary Survey  
The beginning  of the universe   [1]. Many physicists believe that the universe had gradually 
expanded from an intensely hot and dense point which is describ ed in Fred Hoyle‘s famous Big 
Bang theory as the Big Bang singularity. Most of the energy in the universe is dominated by the 
presence of dark matter and dark energy while we have not been able to detect their presence 
experimentally, besides the various r adiations and baryonic matter. Einstein had proposed a static 
and isotropic model of the universe and introduced the cosmological constant to solve his equations. 
However, his model turned out to be unstable.  
 Later Hubble proved that galaxies are moving a part, while some scientists have provided 
valuable data regarding galaxies moving faster than light‘s speed. As we look back in space and 
time, we notice a red -shift in the electromagnetic radiation wavelength and so we conclude from the 
Wien‘s Law that th e temperature was very high at the early stage. It was found that during Big 
Bang, rapid nuclear reactions could take place only for a very short time. So this was a non -
equilibrium process.  
 However, this theory of universe origin from a singularity is so mewhat unjustified as no model 
to date has unified gravity with quantum mechanics. Observations show that most of the 
gravitational matter in the universe  is weakly interacting which consists of the dark matter while 
dark energy act in opposition to it and  cause the universe to accelerate. Besides, it has also been 
found out that a particle is found more commonly than the anti -particle. One explanation for this is 
high temperature during the grand unification.  
  
A Cyclic Theory  
[2].Scientists have also proposed a cyclic model of the universe  where it begins with a big bang  and 
again ends in a single point called the big crunch. From the beginning, we have arrived in a phase of 
accelerated expansion which dilutes entropy and densi ty of the debris after the big bang. This 
acceleration then slowly ends and a period of de -acceleration follows it and finally a contracting 
phase and then the big -crunch. Thereafter, another phase will be resumed in a reversed sense, 
restoring the necessa ry conditions for a new big bang. Such a model had been approved by many 
scientists in the past.  
 But the theory received drawbacks after general relativity was proposed. Besides the problem of 
exactly defining the initial boundary conditions remain. It h as been proposed that the universe is not 
closed but flat. The change from expansion to contraction is because of the negative potential energy 
and spatial curvature. In this way, the total entropy of the universe grows from cycle to cycle while 
the entrop y density has a perfect cyclic behaviour  as it gets created at each phase and gets diluted 
before the end of the phase.  
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
55 Wormholes  
[3].The existence of wormholes  during the evolution of the universe is again a question of great 
interest. This idea was first put forth  by Einstein and Rosen. According to the BIonic model, it is a 
channel for the flow of energy from the anti -universe -brane to the present universe and  is 
responsible for the state of inflation.  
 After some time, it loses its energy, disappears and in this way the deceleration phase starts -off. 
As the separation decreases between the universe branes, tachyon (hypothetical particle moving 
faster than lig ht) gets created. With decreasing separation, a second type wormhole  called tachyonic 
wormholes  are formed. In this way, we again get a connection between the two universe branes and 
the acceleration phase begins again.  
  
Formation of Stars and Galaxies  
[4].We know very little about the state of the universe around 106-109 years right after the big bang. 
It is assumed that the first stars to shine in the universe may have been formed out of un -magnetized 
pure hydrogen/helium gas, the reason being we find heavy elements in their interior.  
 [5].Star formation begins with dens e regions of molecular clouds found in interstellar space. It is 
found that the longest -lived  stars having low mass will run short of their hydrogen fuel, get 
transformed into white dwarfs and in this way within 1014 years, their temperature will become ve ry 
low. On the other hand, stars having larger mass will require a shorter time to meet their end as a 
white dwarf or may turn into a black hole or a neutron star depending on their details of evolution.  
 It has also been studied that a planet gets detach ed from a star when it closely encounters with 
another star. The evolution of galaxies is rather a complicated process and scientists have not been 
able to understand it completely. A galaxy‘s central region may get collapsed to form a black hole 
along wit h evaporation of stars in its outer regions. These evaporated stars soon attain escape 
velocity and after about 1019 years get detached from the galaxy . It is not yet known how much 
matter of the galaxy finally collapses and how much escapes.  
 Due to accre tion, different types of astrophysical sources bursts. By observing the radiations of 
X-rays in white dwarfs, we are able to study them in strong magnetic fields. Neutron stars, on the 
other hand, help us to study matter even under extreme density and magn etic field. The black hole 
binaries serve as a miniature model of super -massive black holes which are found at the centres  of 
many galaxies and help us to study accretion.  
 [6].Observations show that certain stars provide us with valuable clues regarding t he initial steps 
of the chemical evolution of our galaxy. In the early phase, we had only a few supernova sources 
and hence there was incomplete mixing of their ejecta. Besides, we find emission line being absent 
from dwarf galaxies whose metallic abundanc e is relatively less. The observed dispersion in 
abundance of various elements in blue compact galaxies arises because of chemical evolution of the 
first generation of stars.  
 
Age of the Cosmos  
[7].We can derive a new expression to find the age of our univ erse by taking an average of the 
deceleration parameter. Such a result holds in all aspects of cosmology. It is often argued by 
scientists that the decelerating stage must be compensated by the accelerating phase in order that the 
universe coasts forever. Therefore, this present stage of acceleration must be followed by a stage of 
deceleration.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
56  [8].The uniform expansion of the universe was proved from the observation of red -shift in 
distant galaxies. The present properties of the universe can be explained  in terms of its development 
from a state of high temperature and density. The study of various atomic elements provides  
valuable information regarding the changes in the universe. For example, on comparing the decay 
periods of radioactive isotopes like sa marium -148 and thorium -232 that decay in several thousand 
millions of years, with potassium -40 and uranium -235, that decay in about hundred million years, 
we find that the former elements were more abundant than the latter ones. By comparing their 
relative  abundances, we can try to get a rough estimate of our universe‘s age.  
 
Evolution of Life 
[9].It is one of the major interests of scientists to search for extraterrestrial life in the cosmos. For 
this, they need to study how planets develop and how the co nditions for the evolution of life are 
achieved.  
 It is suggested that extraterrestrial organisms could have in other parts of the universe at the 
same time when our Earth saw the first signs of life. Thus liquid water may have also persisted on 
other plan ets and it is widely believed that Mars and Europa have habitable conditions even now.  
 [10].It has been found that the distribution of intelligent beings in a galaxy depends on the rate 
at which stars are formed there, the number of stars having a planet ary system, the mean of the 
habitable planets within each system and various other factors.  
 
Findings  
We have seen that different scientists have different opinions regarding the evolution of stars, 
galaxies and the universe as a whole. However, the big ba ng model, the cyclic model together with 
the big crunch model still remain the most popular and widely accepted ones and the reason being 
they support a number of theoretical observations. Besides, the inflationary stage has also been 
supported by ample ph ysical evidence . 
 The concept of wormholes , on the other hand, is a very debatable one as we don‘t have any 
physical evidence for them. Most scientists believe that it is just a hypothetical concept and can be 
ignored for most calculations in cosmology and  astrophysics.  
 The study of different elements, especially the radioactive ones, together with the composition 
of dust particles, radiations from different stars and galaxies have been studied intensely as they help 
to find the age of the universe and its  properties to a good level of accuracy. Besides, it is widely 
believed that life must evolve and extraterrestrial species must exist in those parts of the cosmos 
which satisfy the conditions of life, especially the presence of liquid water.  
 
Recommendations and Conclusion  
In spite of all the efforts of the modern technology to get a clear picture of the evolution of the 
universe as a whole, problems still remain and several questionsare  yet to be solved.  
 The best way to unfold all the unfold ed mysteries is to find a theory that unifies all the laws of 
Physics as mentioned earlier, in other words, to find a theory that unifies quantum mechanics and 
the force of gravity. While intense work is still going on to find such a theory, we hope that i n the 
future or maybe several years later we frame such a theory or at least get a new ray of light in that 
direction.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
57  As a whole we can conclude that though everything lies within the boundaries of the uncertainty  
principle, we may not be able to solve a ll the questions to a remarkable degree of accuracy as nature 
itself forbids us from doing so but just try to make certain assumptions and arrive at some logical 
conclusions from our experiments and observations.  
 
References  
Audouze, J., & Silk, J. (1995).  The first generation of stars: first steps toward chemical evolution of 
galaxies. The Astrophysical Journal Letters, 451(2), L49.  
Bromm, V., Coppi, P. S., & Larson, R. B. (1999). Forming the first stars in the universe: the 
fragmentation of primordial gas . The Astrophysical Journal Letters , 527(1), L5.  
Dyson, F. J. (1979). Time without end: Physics and biology in an open universe.  Reviews of Modern 
Physics , 51(3), 447.  
Gamow, G. (1948). The evolution of the universe. Nature, 162(4122), 680.  
Lima, J. A. S. (2007). Age of the Universe, Average Deceleration Parameter and Possible 
Implications for the End of Cosmology. arXiv preprint arXiv:0708.3414.  
Marais, D. D., & Walter, M. R. (1999). Astrobiology: exploring the origins, evolution, and 
distribution of life in the universe.  Annual review of ecology and systematics , 30(1), 397 -420. 
Motch, C., Wilms, J., Barret, D., Becker, W., Bogdanov, S., Boirin, L., ... & Haberl, F. (2013). The 
Hot and Energetic Universe: End points  of stellar evolution.  arXiv preprint arXi v:1306.2334 . 
Ratra, B., & Vogeley, M. S. (2008). The beginning and evolution of the universe.  Publications of the 
Astronomical Society of the Pacific , 120(865), 235.  
Setare, M. R., &  Sepehri, A. (2015). Stability of cylindrical thin shell wormhole during the evolution  
of the universe  from inflation to late time acceleration. Journal of High Energy Physics, 
2015(3), 79.  
Steinhardt, P. J., &Turok, N. (2002). Cosmic evolution in a cyclic  universe.  Physical Review 
D, 65(12), 126003.  
 
 
 
 
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
58 PARTS OF COMPUTERIZED REASONING  
 
THEJA  
 B. Tech  Computer Science  
Email ID: theja.2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is AI?  
[1] It is the science and engineering of making intelligent machines and computer programs that 
helps human life more efficient. It helps us to understand human intelligence. It do not undergo any 
method which are biologically observable. [2]  Creation is arising as a product of human contrivance 
and ingenuity rather than as a result of natural especially biological or evolutionary influence. These 
are things that have a certain property through their intelligence as a result of a certain process they 
were created, designed, or manufactured in this way. AI is the human made memory power. AI very 
much updating in planning, reasoning, interpreting data, predicting outcomes. Mathematical 
methods are most commonly used in AI like Statistics and probability.  
 
History of AI  
[3] Intelligent behaviour of software  when measured its efficiency is si milar to human intelligence in 
the past.  It helps us to understand human intelligence. When a human is unconfident whether the 
conversation of both when they are not besides them, will be in contact by viewing each of them 
faces. It do not undergo any meth od which are biologically observable. man -made reasoning in such 
mann er has effectively been very productive in a few ventures like innovation, banking, advertising, 
and amusement. We've seen that regardless of whether calculations work on a lot, enormous 
information and gigantic figuring essentially permit computerized reasoning to learn through animal 
power. [4]  The historical backdrop of man -made reasoning (computer based intelligence) started in 
ancient times, with fantasies, stories and gossipy titbits  about counterfeit creatures supplied with 
insight or awareness by ace specialists. The seeds of current computer based intelligence were 
planted by traditional logicians who endeavoured to depict the course of human thinking as the 
mechanical control of i mages. This work finished in the innovation of the programmable advanced 
PC during the 1940s, a machine dependent on the theoretical pith of numerical thinking. This gadget 
and the thoughts behind it roused a small bunch of researchers to start genuinely t alking about the 
chance of building an electronic cerebrum. Creation is the result of human creativity and invention 
rather than natural forces, such as biological or evolutionary influences. These are items that have a 
specific property due to their intel ligence as a result of a specific method by which they were 
formed, constructed, or made.At past there is no idea to many people and some of them thought and 
they given by theoretical. Because of that some of the AI group has come from theoretical 
topracti cally true. Envisioning an extraordinary communitarian exertion, united top scientists from 
different fields for an open finished conversation on man -made brainpower.  
 
Growth of AI  
[5] There is rapid growth in buying products. It is mostly needed  and become common to have with 
people nowadays. Artificial intelligence helps industrialist to prepare more products in less time. 
Utilizing AI and PC vision for identification and grouping of different "security occasions," the 
shoebox -sized gadget doesn't se e all, yet it sees bounty. Like what direction the driver is looking as Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
59 he works the vehicle, how quick he's driving, where he's driving, areas of individuals around him 
and how other forklift administrators are moving their vehicles. IFM's product consequ ently 
distinguishes security infringement (for instance, wireless use) and informs stockroom supervisors 
so they can make a quick move. The fundamental objectives are to forestall mishaps and increment 
effectiveness. The simple information that one of IFM' s gadgets is watching, Gyongyosi claims, has 
had "a tremendous impact."Artificial intelligence have positive and negative impact. Growth of AI 
is because of laziness in people, But because of AI we can know many things regarding studies, 
places what people  do and many more.  [6] Transportation :  Although it could take a decade or 
more to perfect them, autonomous cars  will one day ferry us from one place to place.  
Manufacturing : intelligence controlled robots work close by people to play out a restricted sco pe 
of assignments like gathering and stacking, and prescient investigation sensors keep hardware 
moving along as planned.  Media : Reporting is tackling computer based intelligence, as well, and 
will keep on profiting from it. Bloomberg utilizes Cyborg inno vation to assist make with fast 
detecting of intricate monetary reports. The Related Press utilizes the normal language capacities of 
Mechanized Bits of knowledge to deliver 3,700 acquiring reports stories each yearalmost multiple 
times more than in the ne w past.  Customer Service : Last however scarcely least, Google is 
chipping away at an artificial intelligence associate that can put human -like calls to make 
arrangements at, say, your local boutique. Notwithstanding words, the framework gets setting and 
subtlety.  However, those advances (and various others, including this yield of new ones) are just the 
start, there's something else to come all the more besides anybody, even the most judicious 
prognosticators, can comprehend.  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[7] The use of artificial intelligence in healthcare has the potential to assist healthcare providers in 
many aspects of patient care and administrative processes. Artificial intelligence in healthcare 
suggest that the use of artificial intelligence in hea lthcare can perform just as well or better than 
humans at certain procedures, such as diagnosing disease, it will be a significant number of years 
before AI in healthcare replaces humans for a broad range of medical tasks.  [8] Artificial 
intelligence  has e xisted for decades and continues to evolve as technology advances. In health care, 
AI can be used to simplify the check -in process for patients, make patient records more efficient, 
monitor disease, aid diagnosis, assist in surgical procedures, and offer m ental health therapy. In 
radiology, AI assists in multiple processes including scheduling patients, billing, optimizing staffing, 
creating protocols, assessing image quality, reducing radiation dose, and image interpretation. AI is 
not something to be fear ed, as it will not replace humans; rather, it should be embraced for its ability 
to improve and prolong lives. Artificial intelligence has also help doctors, nurses to reduce their 
mental pressure and helps to do high risk jobs related to patients. It also  help staff to take decision 
more precisely and accurate. There is growth in artificial intelligence in field of healthcare.  [9]AI-
assisted  robotic  surgery:  As far as training,  AI can help work  on careful  execution,  despite  the fact 
that it is as yet in its outset.  Commonly,  the result  of a medical  procedure,  particularly  one that is 
new or refined,  is reliant  upon  the specialist's  capacity.  Computer  based  intelligence  can help even 
the most  talented  specialists  increment  their usefulness  by decreasing  case-to-case fluctuations.  
Simulated  intelligence  controlled  robots,  for instance,  can empower  three -dimensional  amplification  
for enunciation  while  likewise  performing  with more  noteworthy  accuracy  and scaling  down.  
Essential  accuracy  cutting  and sewing  can be performed  by AI-empowered  robots.  At the Maastricht  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
60 University  Medical  Center  in the Netherlands,  we saw specialists  utilizing  AI helped  mechanical  
technology  to join tiny blood  conduits  running  from.03  to.08  mm in measurement.  The specialist,  
obviously,  still has command  over the mechanical  stitching.  During  a careful  cycle,  there  are a few 
little troublesome  positions  that require  the mastery  of a talented  specialist.  We actually  have  far to 
go before  we can see it. Accuracy  medication:  Accuracy  medication,  which  is being  hailed  as the 
outlook  changing  medical  care practice,  is one of the most  significant  instances  of computerized  
reasoning  in medical  services.  Accuracy  medication  is based  on gigantic  volumes  of information  
gathered  from  an assort ment  of problematic  specialized  developments,  including  as quiet  worn  
wellbeing  sensors,  minimal  expense  genomic  sequencing,  and progressed  biotechnology.  Accuracy  
medication  is characterized  as "fitting  clinical  treatment  to every  understanding's  exceptio nal 
qualities."  Medical  practices  are quickly  getting  away  from  settling  on choices  dependent  on a 
couple  of apparently  divided  attributes  between  patients  and toward  a more  individualized  
methodology.  Accuracy  medication  depends  on current  supercomputing  calculations  with profound  
realizing,  which  puts doctors'  intellectual  abilities  to another  level.  One of the difficulties  nowadays  
of simple  admittance  to genomic  information  is filtering  through  it to find hereditary  variations  that 
raise  ailment  hazard.  Intel,  in organization  with the Scripps  Research  Institute  in California,  has 
fostered  another  innovation.  Drug  revelation:  Clinical  preliminaries  in their flow design  require  
many  years  of exploration  and cost billions  of dollars.  "Just  five out of each 5,000  drugs  that start 
preclinical  testing  at any point  come  to human  testing,  and just one of these  five is at any point  
endorsed  for human  use,"  as per the California  Biomedical  Research  Association.  The use of man-
made  reasoning  (AI) in drug examination  can assist  drug organizations  with smoothing  out medicine  
disclosure  and repurposing.  Pfizer,  Sanofi,  and Genetech,  for instance,  are currently  helping  out AI 
specialist  co-ops IBM Watson,  Exscientia's  man-made  reasoning,  and GNS  Healthcare,  to drive  their 
oncology  drug disclosure  projects.  Artificial  intelligence  can pinpoint  already  obscure  reasons  for 
some  afflictions,  just as consider  more  exact  and repeatable  testing  of more  synthetics.  Utilizing  AI 
for drug disclosure  would  permit  us to forsake  the old experimentation  approach  for a more  quiet  
determined  science  by fusing  more  information  inferred  data.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[10] Artificial intelligence quality of the product has increased. It also provided with cost -effective 
and eco -friendly. This results in  high competition of manufacturing enterprise or group in market. 
Shockingly, many organizations come up short on the assets to make an interpretation of this data to 
decrease expenses and increment productivity. For that, organizati ons need Computerized 
reasoning.[11]Three artificial neural network algorithms are proposed and embedded in a two -stage 
model to support the dynamic allocation of digital designs to different additive manufacturing 
techniques. There is much excitement rega rding the potential for AI in semiconductor 
manufacturing. Recognize abandons all through the creation interaction. Convey prescient support 
to lessen vacation. React to continuous changes sought after across the store network. Approve 
whether mind bogglin g products like central processor have been flawlessly created. Diminish 
expenses of little cluster or single -run products, empowering more prominent customization. Further 
develop representative fulfilment by moving unremarkable undertakings to machines. [12]The world 
are investing heavily in digital transformation in an effort to provide healthier ecosystems for 
people. At homes being equipped with smart devices example smart meters, sensors, and so on, 
which generate massive volumes of fine -grained and i ndexical data that can be analyse.For an Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
61 enormous gathering of enterprises like gaming, banking, retail, business, and government, and so 
forth Man -made intelligence is broadly utilized and is gradually looming in the assembling area, 
working with the mode rn Computerization. Simulated intelligence driven machines are laying a 
more straightforward way to the future by yielding a lot of advantages – offering new freedoms, 
upgrading creation efficiencies, and bringing machine association nearer to human collab oration. 
The Fourth Modern Upheaval is information based work, done by the computerization; by making 
better approaches to robotize errands, we can reconstruct the way individuals and machines live, 
connect and team up, to make a prevalent, more grounded a dvanced economy.  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance   
[13] The role of AI in threat landscape has great impact for information security. They can steal 
from bots, and related systems similar to cyber attacks. So AI has some mechanisms to safe guard 
their data. There are countless attacks unsophisticated programmers, so -called ―script kiddies,‖ who 
are not skilled enough to develop their own cyber -attack programs but can effectively mix, match, 
and execute code developed by others. AI is there for to preven t attacks or crime.  [14] AI plays key 
role in CCTV cameras  or phone cameras. These uses to capture the witness and also for security 
purpose before entering into banks or temples or assembly there will be metal detectors to safe guard 
before itself . Unders ide vehicle bomb detection . Infectious disease detection . Home security . Threat 
screening for large events . Crime prevention cameras . Military reconnaissance.Border control lie 
detector . Offshore Oil & gas threat detection. Machine -based learning and calcu lations are utilized 
in AI for video reconnaissance and security to screen and examine the pictures, recordings, and 
information caught by video observation cameras. It can likewise perceive and investigate the 
development of individuals, autos, and an ass ortment of different items.Simulated intelligence can 
utilize machine vision to group put away information and convey cautions when the framework 
doesn't perceive the individual, demonstrating intruding. The AI programming can possibly keep up 
with track o f the reconnaissance of a huge number of cameras, moving and outliving our human 
capacity to do as such. The limit of AI to distinguish dangers before they happen is significantly 
more charming. Computer based intelligence can distinguish even the smallest  deviations in an 
organization's customary action and stay away from potential attacks utilizing calculations and 
profound learning.  [15] AI is also use in military purposes Thereis robotics and autonomous system 
for which works for difficulties with no ri sk. By this we can see others strength level. While a 
security official may miss an individual slipping into a dim office, a camera supported with savvy 
video investigation is intended to get a glimmer on the screen and remember it as a possible danger. 
Or then again it will detect an individual dallying at the border of a schoolyard and alarm on -the-
ground security authorities to examine and make a move if fundamental, all without thinking twice 
and keeping close watch on the numerous cameras and locations . 
 
AI in Education  
[16]Schools are where much learning happens in friendly and collective settings. AIED assists 
educators with showing down to earth or specialized things to understudies so that straightforward 
of all ideas. AIED right now assists with ta king in anything from the web and so on, whenever. In 
light of computer based intelligence individuals are looking into intrigued things and finding more in 
separate fields and giving them more information.[17] Different advances made to get simpler for 
students and the fine climate for educators to show the understudies. E -picking up becoming ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
62 significant part now a days. Where there is no need of instructors. Current framework information 
there is nonstop advancement of artificial intelligence. Understudie s could get extra help from 
Artificial intelligence guides. It is changing how we find and collaborate with data. Educators invest 
a great deal of energy on regulatory errands like reviewing and surveying worksheets. The 
utilization of computerized reasoni ng (AI) in training can help with the mechanized reviewing and 
appraisal of assignments like numerous decision questions, fill -in-the-spaces, and other comparative 
exercises. Planning understudy report cards is one more terrible and tedious errand for educ ators. 
Man-made reasoning in schooling may likewise have the option to help with this. Regulatory 
undertakings can be computerized, permitting educators to invest more energy with students and 
further developing the learning experience.[18] The exchange of  explicit information to understudies 
and the development of important capacities through particular information were focused on in the 
instructive framework. In light of the framework information which animates in human rationales. 
Simulated intelligence in schooling are reciprocal to one another. Artificial intelligence can drive 
proficiency, personalization and smooth out administrator errands to permit educators the time and 
opportunity to give comprehension and versatilityremarkably human capacities wh ere machines 
would battle. By utilizing the best assign of machines and instructors, the vision for artificial 
intelligence in schooling is one where they cooperate for the best result for understudies. Since the 
understudies of today should work in a futu re where artificial intelligence is the truth, it's significant 
that our instructive establishments open understudies to and utilize the innovation.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[19] Artificial intelligence use for people for taking care of an issue. It is a lot of u tilized in data 
security. Simulated intelligence utilized in military purposes to know the rival power and the 
number of individuals are there. It is additionally utilized in getting of lawbreakers by cc cameras in 
any part they are moving. [20] Man -made i ntelligence procedures like fluffy master frameworks, 
Bayesian organizations, counterfeit neural organizations, and crossover savvy frameworks were 
utilized in various clinical settings in medical care. Electronic wellbeing record frameworks to 
neural orga nization based direction in treatment. Robots helping with doing medical procedures, 
canny prostheses for impeded individuals, and older consideration. PCs being at first utilized in 
clinical imaging for managerial work like picture procurement and capacit y to now turning into a 
basic part of the workplace with the beginning of picture filing and correspondence framework. [21] 
The plan thought is basic. The customary traditional regulator regularly needs to configuration as 
indicated by the controlled item model, however the model development will normally have 
numerous dubious elements, for example, changing of boundaries and the mathematical kind, so that 
to make the plan more troublesome. Computerized reasoning control is easy, and the man -made 
intelligen ce work approximator doesn't have to control the model of the article. Execution 
improvement. By appropriately changing related boundaries, execution can be improved rapidly. For 
instance, the fluffy rationale regulator responds quicker than the ideal PID regulator, and the 
overshoot is more modest. More advantageous to utilize. The man -made consciousness regulator is 
simpler to change than the old style regulator, and is more versatile to new information or new data. 
Great consistency. The conventional con trol calculation is planned by the particular item, so the 
control impact is awesome just for the particular article, however the impact of other control items 
won't be reliable. The man -made reasoning control calculation, regardless of whether for the 
predefined or obscure information, can get great consistency assessment. [22] Digital frameworks Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
63 are profoundly helpless against interruptions and different dangers. Physical or some other human 
mediation isn't feasible for these digital assaults. There ought  to be a solid guard framework in any 
potential ways it ought not spill. Network protection group continually following all assailants. [23] 
Artificial intelligence is exceptionally valuable in modern reason it diminishes the work for 
individuals and expan ding in assembling and accessible to each individual. It additionally has 
monetary advantages. Better client care. Better quality and decrease of human blunder.  
 
Challenges or Dis -advantages of AI   
[24] Since AI is developing consistently, equipment and programming should be updated 
consistently to stay aware of the most recent necessities. Machines require fix and support, the two 
of which cause critical uses. Since they are incredibly convoluted hardware, their development 
requires extravagant costs. [2 5] There are challenges in Data privacy and security, Bias problem, 
limited knowledge, Trust deficit, Computing Power. Nonetheless, as computer based intelligence 
innovation advances and arrangements are grown, more factors additionally seem concerning how  
we get things done and if the current assets will get the job done to take into account the steadily 
changing necessities of individuals. Subsequently, alongside the inexplicable issues, challenges 
appear to be ceaseless and we're not even close to enough  in idealizing our frameworks. To 
overcome this processing unstructed data, improving cyber security etc.,. [26] Negative impacts of 
AI are loss of certain jobs, Accelerated Hacking , AI terrorism etc.,. because of this the people are 
making money with hac king bank accounts, passwords of personal website and also every data in 
phones are getting leaked.  [27] AI-enabled machines incur heavy costs :  Checking out the 
intricacy an artificial intelligence empowered machine handles, it's a good idea that simulate d 
intelligence driven drives can be weighty on pockets. Making a machine that can copy human 
rationale and thinking requires a lot of assets and time, making it very expensive.  Machines lack 
creativity : The issue with machines is that it capacities as cust omized. While computerized 
reasoning has made machines equipped for learning over the long haul, they can't figure out how to 
break new ground. A machine will consistently dissect a circumstance as far as pre -taken care of 
information and previous encounte rs. It is hard for a machine to be innovative in its methodology . 
The issue with this bot -composed article is that it does not have the human touch, dissimilar to other 
Forbes articles. The imaginative touch to clarifying occasions and use cases while comp osing an 
article is absent when a machine does it.  No emotions can beintimidating at times : Machines can't 
bond with people, since they don't have feelings or compassion. While AI and NLP has assisted 
brands with setting up beginning client care through bo t-empowered talk frameworks, they actually 
require a human of blood and tissue to intercede at one highlight settle a continuous issue. If its 
entire is passed on to bots, client experience across the globe will go downhill. Bots can do the 
underlying touc h basing. If clients question is settled through pre -taken care of guide archives, 
fantastic. If not, a ticket is consequently raised by the bot for a human to physically follow up. Now 
and again, a bot can't comprehend your trouble spot since you don't si ncerely drive it. You will 
consistently require a human ear to finish thing.  [28] Independent weapons(AI) are consciousness 
frameworks that are customized to kill. In the possession of some unacceptable individual, these 
weapons could without much of a str etch reason mass setbacks. Additionally, an artificial 
intelligence weapons contest could accidentally prompt a man -made intelligence war that likewise 
brings about mass losses. To try not to be ruined by the adversary, these weapons would be intended 
to be very hard to just "turn off," so people could conceivably fail to keep a grip on such a ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
64 circumstance. This danger is one that is available even with tight simulated intelligence, yet 
develops as levels of artificial intelligence insight and independence increment. The computer based 
intelligence is customized to accomplish something valuable, yet it fosters a ruinous strategy for 
accomplishing its objective: This can happen at whatever point we neglect to completely adjust the 
man-made intelligence's obje ctives to our own, which is strikingly troublesome. In the event that 
you ask a dutiful smart vehicle to accept you to the air terminal as quick as could really be expected, 
it may get you there pursued by helicopters and canvassed in upchuck, doing not wh at you needed 
but rather in a real sense what you requested. In the event that a hyper -genius framework is entrusted 
with an aspiring geo  engineering project, it may unleash ruin with our environment as an aftereffect, 
and view human endeavours to stop it as a danger to be met.  
 
Conclusion  
Artificial consciousness and innovation are two aspects of life that continue to fascinate and astonish 
us with unique ideas, perspectives, improvements, and products. Simulated intelligence is still not as 
well-developed  as the movies that deal with it (e.g., smart robots), but there are countless substantial 
attempts to get to the level and compete in the market, such as the robots that are occasionally 
shown on television. In any case, covert endeavours and advancement in current businesses. 
Towards the end, I've been going over the definitions of computer based intelligence, a brief history, 
open applications of man -made intelligence, military uses of man -made intelligence, computer 
based intelligence morals, and the th ree advanced mechanics standards. This isn't the end of 
computer -based intelligence; there's more to come, and no one knows for sure how the computer -
based intelligence will evolve.  
 
Reference s 
Aghion, P., Jones, B. F., & Jones, C. I. (2019).  9. Artificial  Intelligence and Economic Growth  (pp. 
237-290). University of Chicago Press.  
Allam, Z., & Dhunny, Z. A. (2019). On big data, artificial intelligence and smart cities.  Cities,  89, 
80-91.  
Amisha, P. M., Pathania, M., & Rathaur, V. K. (2019). Overview of artificial intelligence in 
medicine.  Journal of family medicine and primary care,  8(7), 2328.  
Becerra -Fernandez, I. (2000). The role of artificial intelligence technologies in the implementation 
of people -finder knowledge management systems. Knowledge -Base d Systems, 13(5), 315 -
320. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine,  26(4), 53 -53.  
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing a nd logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Cohen, P. R., & Feigenbaum, E. A. (Eds.). (2014). The Handbook of Artificial Intelligence: Volume 
3 (Vol. 3). Butterworth -Heinemann.  
Dilek, S., Çakır, H., & Aydın, M. (2015). Applications o f artificial intelligence techniques to 
combating cyber crimes: A review.  arXiv preprint arXiv:1502.03552.  
Eldrandaly, K. A., Abdel -Basset, M., & Abdel -Fatah, L. (2019). PTZ -surveillance coverage based 
on artificial intelligence for smart cities.  Internati onal Journal of Information 
Management,  49, 520 -532. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
65 Feng, H. (2018, September). The application of artificial intelligence in electrical automation 
control. In  Journal of Physics: Conference Series  (Vol. 1087, No. 6, p. 062008). IOP 
Publishing.  
Guo, M. Ad vantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial Intelligence In Business English 
Teaching. [28] Makridakis, S. (2017). The forthcoming Artificial Intelligence (AI) 
revolution: Its impact on society and firms.  Futures,  90, 46 -60. 
Han, L. (2018). Analysis of new adv ances in the application of artificial intelligence to 
education.  Advances in Social Science, Education and Humanities Research, (220),  
608-611.  
Helbing, D. (2019). Societal, economic, ethical and legal challenges of the digital revolution: from 
big data  to deep learning, artificial intelligence, and manipulative technologies. In  Towards 
digital enlightenment  (pp. 47 -72). Springer, Cham.  
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., & Scharre, P. (2018).  Artificial 
intelligence and  international security. Center for a New American Security.  
Jones, M. T. (2008).  Artificial intelligence: a systems approach. Laxmi Publications, Ltd.   
Lee, J., Singh, J., & Azamfar, M. (2019). Industrial artificial intelligence.  arXiv preprint 
arXiv:190 8.02150.  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering,  18(1), 86 -96.  
Lu, H., Li, Y., Chen, M ., Kim, H., & Serikawa, S. (2018). Brain intelligence: go beyond artificial 
intelligence.  Mobile Networks and Applications,  23(2), 368 -375. 
McCarthy, J. (1998). What is artificial intelligence?.  
Murali¹, N., &  Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Nagao, K. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education. In  Artificial intelligence accelerates human 
learning  (pp. 1 -17). Springer, Singapore.  
Nilsson, N. J. (2009).  The quest for ar tificial intelligence. Cambridge University Press.  
Rich, E., & Knight, K. (1991). Artificial intelligence.  
Timms, M. J. (2016). Letting artificial intelligence in education out of the box: educational cobots 
and smart classrooms.  International Journal of  Artificial Intelligence in Education,  26(2), 
701-712. 
Wagner, J. B. (2019). Artificial intelligence in medical imaging.  Radiologic technology,  90(5), 489 -
501.  
Yassine, A., Singh, S., & Alamri, A. (2017). Mining human activity patterns from smart home big  
data for health care applications.  IEEE Access,  5, 13131 -13141.  
Zang, Y., Zhang, F., Di, C. A., & Zhu, D. (2015). Advances of flexible pressure sensors toward 
artificial intelligence and health care applications.  Materials Horizons,  2(2), 140 -156  
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
130 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
K.R. AMITHESE  SUGANTH  
B.Tech.  Chemical  Engineering  
Email ID: amithesesuganth.kr2021@vit.ac.in  
 
What is AI?  
[1] Artificial Intelligence is the science and engineering of creating machines which are intelligent, 
mainly computer programs which are intelligent.[2] Artificial Intelligence is a computing system 
that can engage in human activities such as learning, adapting, synthesizing, self -evaluation and 
using data for complicated tasks.  
 
History of AI  
[3] Early inventions in the field of electronics, some fields of engineeri ng and other fields have 
raised the idea of AI.  [4] Artificial intelligence was first termed in the year 1950, unfortunately due 
to limitations in earlier models AI was not accepted and it was prevented from entering into the field 
of medicine. The field o f AI research was initially discovered at a workshop which was hosted on 
the campus of Dartmouth College which is situated in the United States of America in the year 1956. 
The persons who attended the event become the main leaders of AI research for decad es. The 
prediction of many people which stated that a machine which is as intelligent as a human being 
would come into existence  within a short period of time not more than a generation, and millions of 
dollars were spent on this project to make this theor y true. Naturally, this became famous such that 
the commercial developers and researchers had dreadfully underestimated the difficulty level of this 
project.  During the year 1973, in response to the criticism from James Light  hill and the high 
pressure fro m congress, the U.S. and British Governments stopped funding the research of artificial 
intelligence, and the difficult years that followed would later be termed as  AI winter. Seven years 
later, a positive  move was initiated by the Japanese Government whic h inspired the government of 
other countries and other industries to supply AI with billions of dollars, unfortunately within the 
late 80s the investors became financially insufficient and stopped the process of funding again. The 
Investment and interest i n AI gloomed  during the initial year of the 21st century during which the 
process of machine learning was successfully applicable in many problems in field of academia and 
industry due to the new methods which were created, the application of powerful comp uter 
hardware, and the collection of massive data sets.  
 
Growth of AI  
[5] Artificial Intelligence is a boon for humans and it helps to develop the world in many aspects.  
[6] Artificial Intelligence also has a special feature of multitasking which makes it  necessary in 
many fields.[7] The emerging field of AI would allow the semiconductor manufacturing companies 
to increase their profits nearly from forty percent to fifty percent. The storage will be at its peak and 
the semiconductor manufacturing companies  will also capture the other digital processes such as 
computing, networking and storing the memory. Semiconductor companies will also find huge 
profits from their existing digital chips. The companies can also be profited from the product of 
novel technol ogies such as AI accelerators. Within the year 2025, AI -related semiconductors would 
account for almost 20 percent of all demand, which would translate into about $67 billion in Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
131 revenue. The Opportunities will begin to emerge from both data  centers and the  edge.  Compute 
performance relies on central processing units (CPUs) and accelerators, graphics -processing units 
(GPUs), field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), and application -specific integrated circuits 
(ASICs). Most compute growth will begin from highe r demand for Artificial Intelligence 
applications at cloud computing data centers. At these areas, GPUs are frequently used for nearly all 
the training applications.  
 We can assume that they will shortly begin to lose market shares to ASICs, still the com pute 
market is evenly divided between these solutions within the stipulated year 2025. Semiconductor 
companies  are the primary movers in the AI space and they will be more likely to attract and retain 
customers and ecosystem partner  sand that can the preve nt later newcomers from gaining a leading 
position in the market. With both major technology players and startups launching independent 
efforts in the AI hardware space now, the gate of opportunity for supporting a claim will quickly 
grow small within the next few years.  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[8] AI is used in the application of wearable pressure sensors. Some other healthcare appliances 
which work in the principle of pressure are hearing aids, Ultrasensitive e -skin, The measurement of 
height and wei ght, Health monitoring, medical diagnosis and many more appliances. A pressure 
sensor usually acts as a converter that converts an imposed force into an electrical (digital) signal or 
other recognized signal as an output. To mark the performance of a sensi ng device, we require the 
basic data about the key parameters associated with pressure sensors. These key parameters include 
the sensitivity, limit of detection (LOD), linearity, response time, and stability.  
 Sensitivity is one of the most important facto rs of pressure sensors because sensitivity 
determines the accuracy of the measurement and efficiency of the device. The response time is also 
an important factor in marking the performance of pressure -sensing devices, especially which are 
used in dynamic r eal-time sensing. The response time is defined as the time consumption of a 
pressure sensor during response processes, from inputting pressure to producing a stable signal 
output. [9] Healthcare monitoring gadgets use the principle of AI.  Using a computati onal algorithm 
which is based on a Convolutional Neural Network  showed that the improvement of appearance and 
attractiveness of the patients with orthognathic treatment.  
 From this we can conclude thatAI can be considered a useful tool in evaluating facial  alterations 
after orthognathic surgery.  [10] AI is used in cephalometric analysis.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[11] AI indirectly facilitates high quality  and high efficiency in the industries. We can state that the 
intelligent manufacturing is a new type of manufacturing model and the technical means through 
which new information and communication technology, intelligent science and technology, large 
manufacturing technology (which includes design, production, management, testing, and 
integration) , system engineering technology, and related product technology are integrated with the 
whole system and lifecycle of product development. The cycle of manufacturing of these products 
uses certain principles such as sensing, interconnecting, collaborating,  learning, method of analysis, 
understanding, decision -making, control, and the execution of human, machine, material, and 
environmental information to enable the integration and optimization of various aspects of a 
manufacturing enterprise or group, inclu ding three elements (people/organizations, operational ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
132 management, and equipment and technology) and five flows (information flow, logistics flow, 
capital flow, knowledge flow, and service flow). This increases productivity and provides a high 
efficiency, high quality, cost -effective, and environmental -friendly service for users, and therefore 
improves the market competitiveness of the manufacturing enterprise or group.  
 [12].AI play an important role in creating machines which are intelligent and can perfo rm tasks 
better. Flexible manufacturing system is a new type of manufacturing for processing various 
different parts with low to medium demand volume. It consists of NC machines and workstations 
connected by automated materials handling system which is usu ally controlled by one computer or 
more. [13]. AI provides optimal scenario in shorter span of time than the original mathematical 
methods in the textile industries. The immediate need for the quick exploration of a textile 
manufacturing process is increas ing its cost along with the complications in the process. The 
development of manufacturing process modeling has shown its growthin attention from the textile 
industry. More number of researchers shifted their attention from traditional methods to the 
intelligent techniques for process modeling as the traditional methods require more time and it also 
requires more manpower which is not feasible.  The section of this paper is in line with the manner 
of textile processes from yarn to fabrics, and then to garmen ts. The review and discussion of the 
earlier studies which were conducted on different applications in different processes. The factors and 
performance properties considered in process modeling are collected in comparison. In terms of 
inputs these factors such as feature selection, modeling techniques, data distribution, and 
performance estimations, the considerations of the previous studies are analyzed and summarized. It 
can also be concluded that the issues faced by the textile industries will be solved by artificial 
intelligence within the next fifty years.  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
[14]. AI is used in malware software trafficking in the field of cybersecurity. The unique technique 
of AI in cyber -attacks seems to be quite interesting. The idea of a machine growing to its own 
knowledge through self -learning becomes advanced to attack things which are aproblem to the cyber 
world. Most of the time, these AI enabled cyber -attacks are made by using the advanced malwares 
which have advanced techniques to  escape from security perimeters. Traditional cyber security 
methods have failed to withstand these attacks. In order to solve these issues, robust traffic 
classification system using Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Artificial Neural Network 
(ANN) i s proposed for providing extreme surveillance. [15]. Automatic Theft detection is used in 
smart banks which is based in the principle of Artificial Intelligence. In a CCTV based theft 
detection along with tracking of thieves, we use image processing to det ect theft and motion of 
thieves in CCTV footage, without the use of sensors. This system focused on object detection. The 
security person will receive the notification about the suspicious individual committing burglary 
using real -time analysis of the move ment of any human from CCTV footage and thus gives a chance 
to avert the same. [16].AI is used in automatic detection of weapons and also in recognizing 
weapons.There is absence of manpower in the security area and average performance of human may 
result i n unknown dangers or delay indetection of threats, which are highly risky for the public. 
Taking this into action, various parties have created real -time and automated solutions for 
identifying risks based on surveillance videos. The purpose of this work i s to develop a low -cost, 
efficient, and artificial intelligence -based solution for the real -time detection and recognition of 
weapons in surveillance videos under different cases.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
133 AI in Education  
[17]. For the past twenty years computers have been used in  the field of education. Intelligent 
tutoring systems seemed to have increased the performance of the students and also highly 
motivated the students. [18]. The AI software would be created by the institution or a company and 
the AI software would be prima rily used by the students. [19].AI has been a solution for a number of 
problems. AI has some applications in the field of education such as visualizing graphs, explaining 
the power of personalization and few more.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[20]. For the past twen ty years computers have been used in the field of education. Intelligent 
tutoring systems seemed to have increased the performance of the students and also highly 
motivated the students. [21]. The AI software would be created by the institution or a compan y and 
the AI software would be primarily used by the students. [22].AI has been a solution for a number of 
problems. AI has some applications in the field of education such as visualizing graphs, explaining 
the power of personalization and few more.  
 
Disad vantages of AI  
[23]. The primary disadvantages of AI are increasing unemployment and mass scale destruction can 
be created if used by wrong people. [24]. The price of these machines is high so if it fails to work 
efficiently then it is a huge loss. [25]. M any universities are not aware of the application of AI in the 
field of teaching. [26]. Though AI has the potential to think like AI but it cannot replace a human 
because it does have any emotions or feelings. [27]. The time elapsing is not enough as the c reation 
of relevant technologies and deficiency of current computer science is deepening and computer 
science became more complicated.  
 
Conclusion  
We can conclude that Artificial Intelligence is either a boon or a burden for man beings. From one 
point of v iew we can state that artificial intelligence is a boon in the field of education as it has 
increased the progress of students which is a boon. It can also be stated as a burden in the field of 
industry as it is responsible for the unemployment of humans w hich is a very serious issue since its 
birth and it has also increased the productivity of the industries.  
 We, humans have created technology which is very comfortable for us. This technology is our 
servant but it should be served by us. According to some  anonymous sources, the present industries 
consist of seventy one percent of humans and twenty nine percent of machines and in future forty 
nine percent of the industry will be compromised machines. This fact is good from the point of view 
of advancement i n technology but bad from point of humanity as the unemployment will rise. In 
last, we can state that no matter how good AI is, it is equally deadly. I would like to thank my 
professor Dr. Karthikeyan for assigning this topic to me, I learned many new thin gs during the 
research of this topic.  
 
References  
Aiken, R. M., & Epstein, R. G. (2000). Ethical guidelines for AI in education: Starting a 
conversation. International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education, 11, 163 -176. ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
134 Arivudainambi, D., KA, V. K., &Visu, P. (2019). Malware traffic classification using principal 
component analysis and artificial neural network for extreme surveillance. Computer 
Communications, 147, 50 -57. 
Batra, G., Jacobson, Z., Madhav, S., Queirolo, A., & Santhanam, N. (2019). Artificial -intelligence 
hardware: New opportunities for semiconductor companies. McKinsey and Company, 
January, 2.  
Beck, J., Stern, M., &Haugsjaa, E. (1996). Applications of AI in Education. XRDS: Crossroads, The 
ACM Magazine for Students, 3(1), 11 -15. 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230. 
Bouletreau, P., Makaremi, M., Ibrahim, B., Louvrier, A., &Sigaux, N. (2019). Artificial  intelligence: 
applications in orthognathic surgery. Journal of stomatology, oral and maxillofacial surgery, 
120(4), 347 -354. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence. Ai Magazine, 26(4), 53 -53. 
Chowdhury, M., &Sadek, A. W.  (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues, 6(3), 360 -375. 
Davies, H. C., Eynon, R., &Salveson, C. (2021). The mobilisation of AI in education: A 
Bourdieusean field  analysis. Sociology, 55(3), 539 -560. 
Guo, M. Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial Intelligence In Business English Teaching.  
Kakadiya, R., Lemos, R., Mangalan, S., Pillai, M., &Nikam, S. (2019, June). Ai based automatic 
robbery/theft detection using  smart surveillance in banks. In 2019 3rd International 
conference on Electronics, Communication and Aerospace Technology (ICECA) (pp. 201 -
204). IEEE.  
Kaul, V., Enslin, S., & Gross, S. A. (2020). History of artificial intelligence in medicine. 
Gastrointest inal endoscopy, 92(4), 807 -812. 
Khanzode, K. C. A., &Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review. International Journal of Library & 
Information Science (IJLIS), 9(1), 3.  
Kök, H., Acilar, A. M., &İzgi, M. S. (2019). Usage and comparison of artificial intelligence 
algorithms for determination of growth and development by cervical vertebrae stages in 
orthodontics. Progress in orthodontics, 20(1), 1 -10. 
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T. , Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review. Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering, 18(1), 86 -96. 
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?.  
Mital, A.,  & Anand, S. (2013). Handbook of expert systems applications in manufacturing structures 
and rules. Springer Science & Business Media.  
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries. In Conference: Bilingual 
International Conf erence on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of Defence Delhi.  
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Popenici, S. A., & Kerr, S. (2017). Exploring the impact of artificial intelligence on teaching and 
learning in higher education. Research and Practice  in Technology Enhanced Learning, 
12(1), 1 -13. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
135 Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016], 5(6).  
Viscaino, M., Bustos, J. T., Muñoz, P., Cheein, C. A., &Cheein, F. A. (2021). Artificial intelligence 
for the early detection of colorectal cancer: A comprehensive review of its advantages and 
misconceptions. Worl d Journal of Gastroenterology, 27(38), 6399.  
Woolgar, S. (1985). Why not a sociology of machines? The case of sociology and artificial 
intelligence. Sociology, 19(4), 557 -572. 
Xu, S., & Hung, K. (2020, April). Development of an ai -based system for automati c detection and 
recognition of weapons in surveillance videos. In 2020 IEEE 10th Symposium on Computer 
Applications & Industrial Electronics (ISCAIE) (pp. 48 -52). IEEE  
Xu, Y., Thomassey, S., & Zeng, X. (2018). AI for apparel manufacturing in big data era: A focus on 
cutting and sewing. In Artificial Intelligence for Fashion Industry in the Big Data Era (pp. 
125-151). Springer, Singapore.  
Zang, Y., Zhang, F., Di, C. A., & Zhu, D. (2015). Advances of flexible pressure sensors toward 
artificial intelligence an d health care applications. Materials Horizons, 2(2), 140 -156. 
Zhao, Y., Li, T., Zhang, X., & Zhang, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence -based fault detection and 
diagnosis methods for building energy systems: Advantages, challenges and the future. 
Renewabl e and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 109, 85 -101. 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
66 ADVA NCEMENT OF COOLING TECHNOLOGY IN  
BATTERIES OF ELECTRIC VEHICLES  
 
SATYAM GAUTAM  
 
GUARANG SALUNKE  
 
KUSHAL SHAH  
Email ID: satyam.gautam2018@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Abstract  
Due to the continuous usage of gasoline vehicles environment is continuously getting polluted due to which an 
eco-friendly technology was needed. This led to the  invention of electric vehicles. Later it was found out that 
electric vehicles also faced problem due to heating of batteries which led to the decrease efficiency of the 
batteries.  In warm countries some advanced cooling technology must be introduced so as to overcome heating 
of batteries. The optimum temperature for batteries is about 25 degree centigrade but due to some internal 
heating it is difficult to maintain this temperature  and due to this various organisations started working for 
finding an advanced cooling technology so as to increase the efficiency of the batteries and to promote the 
electric vehicles. Here in this paper some of the current cooling technologies have been discussed along with 
the comparison with the previous technologies. The preheating of the batteries is also required for starting the 
electric vehicle and for this sum heat and technologies are the required which are also discuss and this 
discussion state of charge (SOC) and the health of the batteries should also be maintained in order to increase 
the life of the battery. For increasing the life of the batteries we have also discuss some technologies in the 
following pages.  
Keywords : electric vehicle, ther mal management, heat pipes, cooling of batteries, temperature  
 
Introduction  
In the last few decades we have seen that there has been a major problem in environmental 
degradation. The major cause for the degradation is the pollution cause by the automotive vehicles. 
This arises the need for some environmental friendly technology in automotive industries. This leads 
to the invention of electric vehicles. Electric vehicles has become the fastest growing innovations in 
the automobile industries. Vehicle which d o not pollute the environment shows a very promising 
sign for future development in the industries. Electric vehicles is still at a very prepubescent stage. 
Lots of research are done to make it more advanced.  
 Electric vehicles mainly work on lithium batte ries. This type of batteries works most efficiently 
at 25 degree centigrade. In tropical countries like India UAE Malaysia etc average temperature is 
about 32 -40 degree centigrade. Due to high temperature the batteries get heated up which leads to 
wastage of energy. The internal resistance of batteries will rise sharply when the operating 
temperature is lower than zero degree centigrade, which can greatly influence the performance of 
the batteries.  
 In the current period Passive air cooling is used in elect ric vehicles for Battery Thermal 
Management System (BTMS). During charging of battery it will not cool down because cooling of 
battery is mostly depends upon movement of electric vehicles. That is why, heating of battery led to 
the decrement in charging ti me of battery. In tropical countries active cooling system is much more 
required as heat cannot be transferred easily as in colder region  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
67 Literary Survey  
[1] Electric and hybrid vehicle‘s performance and  life cycle cost depends totally on batteries which 
are an energy storage system.  
 All electric range, power of acceleration, fuel economy and acceptance of charge is directly 
affected or depends mainly on battery pack installed. Important factors for obtaining a good amount 
of performance in battery is temp erature and  uniformity in temperature. Packs installed in modules 
have to be operated within certain temperature range which is suitable for electrochemical pair. 
Further this modules should run under uniform temperature, since uneven temperature distribut ion 
in packs may affect the charging /discharging behaviour which could lead to unbalance in electric 
modules and reduce the efficiency of the pack. There has been a need to achieve  the desired 
performance or efficiency in packs which could be brought up b y Battery Thermal Management 
System (BTMS) which could work in any climatic conditions.[2] For starting the Hybrid electric 
vehicles (HEV) battery preheating is required which is difficult in colder regions and battery 
preheating can be done by passing flu id which is not very effective due to sluggish during cold 
temperature. Energy and heat are transferred by passing electricity, heating by electric heaters by hot 
fluid. testing two batteries lead acid and NiMH batteries AC heating is found to be more effe ctive in 
preheating the main motive of the BTMS is to increase the efficiency of batteries in HEVs and still 
test on temperature, SOC state of charge, currents are still going on.[3] For efficient working of 
batteries optimum temperature is required. For c ooling several methods like passive cooling means 
outside air passage, passive heating and cooling means cabin air passage, active heating by outside, 
method by liquid includes direct contact of liquid, moderate cooling through liquid circulation, 
active c ooling and heating. Air cooling is less complicated than liquid cooling but even less effective 
than liquid cooling and  NiMH batteries has complicated BTMS(battery thermal management 
system) than Lithium ion and VRL a batteries. In active vs passive system , active components like 
evaporation, engine coolants heating core are preferred.[4] The enlarging market of electric vehicles 
calls for highly specific power and highly specific energy density batteries for the proper ignition of 
the electric vehicle. The  staging of electric vehicle is directly proportional to the staging of electric 
batteries. For efficient cooling and thermal management many industries widely use heat pipes also 
called as ―super thermal conductors‖. A conclusion is made at the end that h eat pipes are 
successfully used to cool a battery with a negligible rate of heat generation. An appropriate heat pipe 
can control the temperature and the temperature difference of power batteries in a specific range. 
Power batteries thermal management nece ssarily needs  heat pipes to show a positive signs for the 
desired cycle performance. One of the major factor is  the temperature rise, which must be taken into 
consideration first, for the design of power battery thermal management system which could be 
achieved by installing well designed heat pipes. [5] For adopting eco -friendly technology electric 
vehicles come in role in the main problem in electric vehicles is detection of efficient battery, for 
that state of charge (SOC) of batteries means health of ba tteries must be good and for (SOC) three 
things must be monitored, firstly cell voltage monitoring which means charging of batteries should 
be stopped is voltage is above 4. 2 volts and discharging should be stopped is voltage of cell 
becomes below 2. 7 vo lt threshold. Secondly, cell equalization means for having higher energy 
storage capacity and for that switched register technology should be introduced and lastly, battery 
management which means monitoring for state of charge and good health of the batter y should be 
monitored.[6] Electric and hybrid electric vehicle‘s core energy sources are battery, their staging 
greatly impacts the stability of vehicles. Manufacturers are seeking for the improvement in the 
battery technology and battery management system s. Due to various environmental degradation of 
battery, it may vary, chemical reactions in battery are subject to ignition condition. In research and ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
68 commercial products battery management system framework was proposed to deal with the 
deficiency of curren t battery management systems. Therefore different ways should be applied to 
improve and optimize the performance of battery management systems in future electric and hybrid 
electric vehicles.   
 [7] Liquid cooled plate heat exchanger is required to improve the state of charge of battery and 
health of battery in electric vehicles. The battery of electric vehicle undergoes various problem like 
premature aging because of continuous heating of battery at the time of charging and discharging. 
For understanding th e temperature distribution of battery, computational fluid dynamics (CFD) is 
used. Water is used as heat transfer fluid when different amount of water is passed with different 
flow rate. The surface temperature is maintained which is required for self -operation of battery by 
heat exchanger plates.[8] The battery in electric vehicles consists of module of cells and due to the 
high temperature and inappropriate voltage lead to imbalance and can decrease the performance of 
pack by 25%. Battery management syste m (BMS) provides voltage measurement, equalization and 
management of charge. Battery packs can be controlled by the software which can balance the cell 
and equalise the battery. Modularization can avoid wiring harness and can reduce the number of 
modulus a nd even cost of modularization also increase energy density which leads to high energy 
storage capacity of batteries.[9] For personal transportation electric vehicles were accepted by most 
of the researchers in place of vehicles which consume primary energ y. Conventional vehicles are 
less efficient in terms of energy than electric vehicles. Conventional vehicles work at 18% efficiency 
whereas electric vehicles are operated at 46% efficiency. Zero vehicular emissions are produced by 
electric vehicles. Howeve r, when the source fuel is converted into electrical power, emissions are 
produced at the generation site. The emission of electric cars therefore depends on the emission 
profile of regional generating plants. [10] SLI Lead -Acid batteries life cycle has a linear relationship 
with temperature i.e. when life cycle of battery decreases, temperature increases. Similarly, the 
charge efficiency increases linearly.  Thermal control is necessary at near ambient temperature for 
battery systems. As the temperature dro pped the rate of charge acceptance also dropped suddenly. 
Several lead acid EV battery pack‘s performance and life are dependent on temperature gradient. 
Subsequently it was found that temperature gradient between modules reduces overall pack 
capacity. The  temperature distribution for maintaining the pack is 35 degree to 40 degree centigrade 
for lead acid batteries that are used presently.  
 
Findings  
For starting an electric vehicle preheating of battery is required which can be done by sparking and 
passing fluid through it. But afterwards cooling of batteries is must so as to keep the efficiency of 
battery balanced. So cooling outside air passage, passive heating and cooling, cooling by liquid, 
cooling by ventilation, engine coolants can be used. State of ch arge and health of battery can be 
maintained by maintaining voltage across the battery during charging and discharging. Most of the 
research is carried on Lithium ion and NiMH batteries. It is necessary to keep temperature uniform 
since temperature plays a n important role. There is a need to keep optimum temperature so as to 
keep the performance of the battery module. Uneven temperature may affect charging and 
discharging behaviour of the battery which could make an impact on performance of batteries. Heat 
pipes are used for uniformity of temperature in batteries. The main source of energy on EVs and 
HEVs are batteries and therefore the performance of EVs and HEVs is greatly influenced by 
stability of vehicle. Battery Thermal Management System (BTMS) is a wa y in which we could keep 
a control over all the problem listed above.  
 Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
69 Recommendation & Conclusion  
After the invention of Eco Friendly Technology as  electric vehicles various problems also associated 
with the usage of HEVs . The major problem was related to battery and the problems were 
preheating of batteries, cooling of batteries and state of charge of batteries by the continuous efforts 
in research various technologies emerged which can resolve the above problems to some e xtent and 
the major outcomes were passive cooling of batteries. Battery Thermal Management System is a 
way we can ensure that the performance of batteries in EVs and HEVs is efficiently working. 
Conventional Vehicles are less efficient in term of energy an d performance in batteries whereas 
Electric Vehicles have high efficient battery with good performance which will keep the EVs and 
HEVs stable .Also there is a need to maintain temperature gradient or make temperature uniform so 
that battery does not chang e its behaviour while charging or discharging.  
 
Reference s 
Affanni, A., Bellini, A., Franceschini, G., Guglielmi, P., & Tassoni, C. (2005). Battery choice and 
management for new -generation electric vehicles. IEEE Transactions on Industrial 
Electronics, 52(5), 1343 -1349.  
Maskey, M. (1999). Battery management system for HEV (Doctoral dissertation, Texas Tech 
University).  
Pesaran, A. A. (2001). Battery thermal management in EV and HEVs: issues and solutions. Battery 
Man, 43(5), 34 -49. 
Pesaran, A. A., Burch,  S., & Keyser, M. (1999). An approach for designing thermal management 
systems for electric and hybrid vehicle battery packs. 4th Vehicle Thermal Management 
Systems, 24 -27. 
Pesaran, A. A., Vlahinos, A., & Burch, S. D. (1997). Thermal performance of EV and HEV battery 
modules and packs. National Renewable Energy Laboratory.  
Pesaran, A., Vlahinos, A., & Stuart, T. (2003, March). Cooling and preheating of batteries in hybrid 
electric vehicles. In  6th ASME -JSME Thermal Engineering Joint Conference  (pp. 1 -7). 
Rahman, M. M., Rahman, H. Y., Mahlia, T. M. I., & Sheng, J. L. Y. (2016, March). Liquid cooled 
plate heat exchanger for battery cooling of an electric vehicle (EV). In IOP Conference 
Series: Earth and Environmental Science (Vol. 32, No. 1, p. 012053). IOP Pu blishing.  
Rao, Z., Wang, S., Wu, M., Lin, Z., & Li, F. (2013). Experimental investigation on thermal 
management of electric vehicle battery with heat pipe. Energy Conversion and 
Management, 65, 92 -97. 
Stuart, T., Fang, F., Wang, X., Ashtiani, C., &Pesaran,  A. (2002). A modular battery management 
system for HEVs (No. 2002 -01-1918). SAE Technical Paper.  
Xing, Y., Ma, E. W., Tsui, K. L., &Pecht, M. (2011). Battery management systems in electric and 
hybrid vehicles. Energies, 4(11), 1840 -1857.  
 
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
70 ARTIFICIAL IN TELLIGENCE - AN AUTOMATED CREATION  
 
NANDIGAM KAMALI HARIPRIYA  
B.Tech Computer Science  
Email ID: kamali.haripriya2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence?  
[1] Artificial Intelligence is a study of Engineering Science that deals in making smart Machines and 
Computer based programmes. It works by using the computers to understand the human 
Intelligence, but AI is not only limited to biological methods, it is a part in various platforms and 
fields. [2] AI is explained as an intelligence displayed by an artificial system to resolve complex 
problems and such a system is normally supposed to be a computer or a machine. Artificial 
Intelligence is a combination of computer science and physiology of Intell igence, which can be 
simply stated as an algorithmic and computerised part of advantage to the today‘s world.[3]We can 
create machines which can behave like a human, think like humans, and able to make decisions 
individually through AI mechanism. The two w ords Artificial Intelligence commonly means the 
intelligence made by humans. The field of Artificial Intelligence was formed with an idea that one 
day the intelligent machines created will be able to match the human intelligence and consciousness. 
AI is no t only evolving in the research sector but also in the modernization of Industries and work as 
we currently understand. Ai goes through various phases of planning, reasoning, analysing data, 
prediction of outcomes and acting in accordance. Statistics, Prob ability and various other 
mathematical approaches are used in AI for Neural Networks and Machine Learning.  
 
History of Artificial Intelligence?  
[4] Artificial Intelligence was first introduced and detailed in 1950, but due to many limitations in 
the earlie r models prevented it from global acceptance and application which overcame by the 
development of careful research and deep learning.[5]After 1956, Artificial Intelligence researchers 
began out to identify the standard methodologies that characterised inte lligent human behaviour and 
cognitive abilities in medical diagnosis, playing chess, language understanding in speech processing 
and other areas in the aim of being able to automate the processes. However, primarily, Artificial 
Intelligence today, mainly a pproaches this symbolic method only for the name. Over the course of 
twentieth century, major part of the foundational commitments and methodologies were forgotten. 
Human‘s Intelligence was perhaps most prominently, the primary example upon which early 
automation mechanism techniques were based. The main goal was to replicate intelligent human 
behaviour and cognitive abilities into robots and machines by understanding the mechanisms that 
take place in our own intellect so that they could be automated. Howev er today, most of the 
researchers want to design and create autonomous systems that can handle well in complex 
application domains by any possible means instead of using human -like means (Floridi, 2016). In 
fact, many strong methodologies today intentional ly eliminate human activity such as automated 
game leagues that create remarkable strategies totally by playing only against oneself and keeping a 
record of moves that are most likely leading to a win, rather than using human inspired techniques or 
trainin g to play with human operators (Pollack & Blair, 1997; Tesauro, 1995).Machine Learning is 
said to be today‘s most powerful and profitable, artificial intelligences created. It exhibits relatively 
a limited range of intelligent behaviour. Machine Learning a lgorithms are mostly designed to Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
71 perform one task to generate accurate predictions. There is no clear narration of artificial 
intelligence from the 1950s to the present day. [6] Invention and evolution in engineering and 
technology, determined and developed  Artificial Intelligence. At first it worked on basic problem 
solving, representing knowledge and theorizing. It was also used in proving theorems, translations, 
associative memory and other basic algorithms.  
 
Growth of Artificial Intelligence?  
[7] Artific ial Intelligence is one of the most rapidly emerging and advancing technology today. AI 
continuously progressed nearly every decade since the 1950‘s, when the programming language 
―Lisp‖ is designed by John McCarthy. It used to carry self -modifying applica tions. Later in 1970‘s 
when Expert Systems (ES) developed, Artificial Intelligence was referred as one of the frontier 
technologies. And after a decade, again AI was at the lead when the Japanese Government begin its 
research and development effort to deve lop an AI based computer architecture, which is called as 
Fifth Generation Computer System (FGCS). Now in the 2010‘s Artificial Intelligence is again 
leading in automation, robotics development, data analytics and so on. The current AI revolution can 
chang e the future world in many ways. [8] Artificial Intelligence has become more widely accepted 
and adopted by leading organisations as a competitive growth component. The capability  for 
introduction of Artificial Intelligence into national economy system is immense and this cannot be 
relegated to individual companies or businesses. Above all it is the strategic on a national scale such 
as exploring optimal models of sectoral balance sheets. Formulation of target indicators for large 
corporations, supply of ma rket and economic forecasting with aggregate demand, monetary -
crediting system optimisation and so on. [9] In the latest days Artificial Intelligence (AI) and 
Machine Learning (ML) have advanced significantly permitting for a broad range of advantageous 
and useful applications. Now artificial intelligence is the crucial element of regularly used 
technologies like automatic speech recognition, machine translation, spam filters, and search 
engines. Driverless automobiles, digital assistants for nurses and doc tors, and AI -enabled drones for 
expediting disaster relief operations are some of the interesting technologies currently being 
developed and implemented in small -scale pilots. Even, further in the future advanced AI 
technologies has the ability to reduce t he demand for unnecessary labour greatly expediting 
scientific research, and improving the quality of governance. Artificial intelligence has a lot of 
advantages and many of these developments excite us but there are also ways through which AI 
might be exp loited negatively. By preventing or minimising this risk we can not only avoid the 
corresponding problems but can also avoid the delay in the development and growth of AI‘s 
positives and advantages.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Health Care Appliances  
[10] Artificial intelligence generated medical and biological technologies are rapidly developing into 
applications for medical practices. Intelligent computer programmes and algorithms can deal with 
increasing amounts of information which can be provided by smart phones, wearables and other 
mobile monitoring sensors in different areas of medicine. Currently, only very specific settings in 
clinical practice benefit from the application of artificial intelligence, such as the detection of atrial 
fibrillation , epilepsy, seizures, hypoglycemiaand some other organ diagnosis based on medical 
examination.[11] Today‘s modern health care and its medicine includes monitoring of and 
benchmarking with predefined quality indicators which results on the implementation of  the best 
practice. There is a chance of microbiological findings which result in healthcare -associated ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
72 infections (HAIs) but with the help of MOMO, a modern microbiology analytics software, as well 
as with MONI, a fully automated detection and monitoring system an automated detection and 
monitoring system, we can detect the HAIs. This results a high systematic care of the patients and 
their safety with no type of error.[12] AI track, trace and monitor patients. Information systems 
related to AI are the new  yielding sources of the medical evolution and building of a global 
economy. Internet of things (IOT) acts as an important role in the growth of Information systems. 
However, it is really important that the medical institutions trust the IoT systems regard ing their 
performance, security, privacy, reliability and return -on-investment, which are an open challenge of 
current IoT systems. [13] Forms of Artificial Intelligence (AI) such as algorithms and neural 
networks are thoroughly investigated for new medica l applications in areas like imaging and 
diagnostics, risk analysis, lifestyle management and monitoring, health care information 
management and virtual remote health care assistance. Increased speed in image processing, better 
vision into predictive scree ning, and decreased healthcare expenditures and inefficiencies include as 
expected benefits in this field. On the other hand, AI automated medical and clinal techniques create 
a lot of new circumstances wherein commonly -held values and ethical principles m ay be challenged.  
 
Artificial Intelligence Manufacturing and Production  
[14] AI is called to be the fourth Industrial revolution. Computational Systems with programming 
Intelligence can resolve various complex problems in the real world. Artificial Intelli gence with the 
help of big data changed all the industries and revolutionised the business around the world which 
resulted in increase of the  economic growth. [15] There are many new innovative technologies like 
Cloud Computing, Internet of Things involved (IoT),  the Industrial Internet of Things; Big Data; 
Blockchain; Cyber -Physical Systems; Artificial Intelligence in the fourth industrial revolution. 
Artificial Intelligence mainly plays a really important and significant role in this Industry 4.O model. 
AI in manufacturing is observed two peroids:1979 -2010 and 2011 -2019 which are considered as 
before and after origination of industry 4.O. It mainly includes things like big data, cyber -physical 
systems and smart manufacturing and real time algorithms. [16] Ad vanced analytical computing and 
deep learning made the evolution of manufacturing system applications in an automated way. 
Industries and manufacturing units are seeking opportunities to replace the traditional research 
approaches to newly developed concep ts and technologies of the Internet of Things (IoT), and 
cyber -physical systems.[17] Artificial Intelligence (AI) accelerates the combination of 
manufacturing of information and communication technologies, including computing, 
communication, and control, e nabling high value -added manufacturing to the next generation of 
smart factories to support new varieties and small customized production modes. AI technology 
enables manufacturing systems to recognize the environment, adapt to external requirements, and 
extract process knowledge, including business models such as smart production, network 
collaboration, and extended service models.[18] Intelligent Manufacturing is a new advanced 
manufacturing representation and the practical means by which new information and 
communication technologies intelligent science and technology, large manufacturing technology 
(including design, production, management, testing, and integration), system engineering 
technology, and related product technology are assimilated with the e ntire system and product 
development lifestyle. To allow the assimilation and improvement different components of a 
manufacturing organisation or group, the life cycle of industrial production uses autonomous 
sensing interconnection, collaboration, learnin g, analysis, cognition, decision -making, control, and Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
73 the execution of human, machine, material, and environmental information which include three 
elements (people/organizations, operational management, and equipment and technology) and five 
flows (informa tion flow, logistics flow, capital flow, knowledge flow, and service flow). This 
facilitates production and deliver customers high efficiency, high quality, cost -effective, and 
environmentally friendly service for consumers, and increases the competitivene ss of the 
manufacturing company. In the field intelligent manufacturing, artificial intelligence technology 
supports the advancement of new models, means, and forms, system architecture, and technology 
systems (Li  et al. , 2014 ; NMSAC and SAC -CAE,  2016 ). 
 New Models: An advanced manufacturing approach that is internet -based, service -oriented, 
collaborative, customizable, flexible, and socialized to the consumers.  
 New Means: Digitalization, Internet of Things (IOT), virtualization, service, collaboration, 
customization, flexibility and intelligence are all components of human intelligence machine -
oriented manufacturing systems.  
 New  form: The features of an intelligent industrial environment comprise ubiquitous 
interconnection, data -driven Ness, cross -border integration, autonomous intelligence, and mass 
innovation.  
 The strong combination of multiple systems, techniques and concepts  will ultimately form an 
intelligent manufacturing community.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Security and Surveillance  
[19] The human eye is a very efficient device that scans large amounts of low -level visual sensory 
data and delivers selective information t o the brain for high -level semantic explanation and context 
recognition. But over the past few decades, the computer vision community has tried to provide 
similar perceptual functionality to artificial visual sensors. Considerable efforts have been made to  
understand the consistent images and processes of each individual object in the human visual 
system. An important application for video analysis and understanding which is a part of intelligent 
surveillance aimed at automatically interpreting human activi ties and detecting abnormal events that 
can pose a threat to public security and safety is developed. [20] Current Achievements and 
developments in Artificial intelligence influenced the military equipment and power with  deliberate 
competition effected the  world politics widely. AI can be a major potential source of 
unpredictability  and vulnerability which results in  huge demanding strategic  competitions around 
the world. AI can have a great impact on military applications from a tactical and diplomatic 
battlefield perspective to a deliberate level.[21] The environment of security and possible risk for 
citizens, organizations, and states is changing in response of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine 
Learning (ML). Illegal use of AI could affect digital security (example: through criminals training 
machines and algorithms to hack or social engineer victims at human or superhuman levels of 
performance), physical security (example:  non-state actors weaponizing consumer  drones) and 
political security (example: through privacy -eliminating surveillance, profiling, and repression, or 
through automated and targeted disinformation campaigns). The negative use of Artificial 
Intelligence will have consequences for how we develo p and maintain our digital internet platform, 
as well as how we design and spread AI intelligence systems and will definitely require policy and 
other institutional responses.[22] Change in military superiority, information superiority and 
economic superio rity will affect the national security due to advances in Artificial Intelligence. For a 
military advantage, the development of AI will enable new capabilities and make existing ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
74 capabilities more accessible to broader extent of people. Activities that curr ently require a lot of 
advanced labour, such as continuous threats in the cyber sector, will be mostly automated in the 
future and can be easily accessible in the black market. Forgery of audio and video media enhanced 
by AI is rapidly improving in quality  and also easily affordable today. This results in loss of trust 
over many institutions.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Education  
[23] Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIED) covers a broad range of advanced Technology and 
Innovations from AI -driven, sequ ential effective learning and dialogue structures. By AI assisted 
effective Learning student writing analysis, cognitive computing agents like bots in gaming 
scenarios and student support chat  bots in such a way the students are in complete control of thei r 
own learning. It also allows students to engage and interact with one another through computers, the 
entire techniques, students using devices like mobile phone out of the classroom and lot more. 
Furthermore, AIED gives an insight on educational and lear ning approaches. AIED is derivative and 
innovative at the same time. It combines theories and approaches from sectors like Artificial 
Intelligence, Cognitive sciences and Education.[24] In the last twenty -five years Artificial 
Intelligence in Education (AI ED) sector has undergone major advancements. There are two 
simultaneous components that needs to emerge in order to have an influence on education in the 
next twenty -five years. One is an adaptive and evolutionary process that focuses on present 
classroom approaches, interaction with teachers, and enhancing advanced technologies and ranges. 
The other is a transformative process, where we insist to integrate technologies within students‘ 
everyday lives, encouraging their cultures, goals, practices, and commu nities.[25] Web Intelligence 
(WI) is an important aspect of Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIED). WI addresses the basic 
roles as well as limited impacts in both Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Information Technology (IT) 
sectors in the coming gene ration of Web -insisted products, systems, services, and activities. WI is 
highly advantageous in the field of AIED as a direction for scientific research and development. Some 
main elements such as ontologies, adaptivity and personalization, and agents are  the fundamental 
components that attracted AIED researchers for quite some time. WI focuses on other issues like 
intelligent Web services, semantic mark  up, and Web mining in AIED.[26] Artificial Intelligence is a 
branch of study which developed in compute rs, machines and others systems possessing human -like 
intelligence distinguished by cognitive abilities, learning, adaptability, and decision -making 
capabilities. According to the results, commonly recognised and applied in education, especially by 
educati onal institutions in multiple kinds. AI actually started in the form of computer kind of 
technologies proceeding to web based online intellectual educational standards and ultimately with 
the use of embedded computer systems, together with other technologi es the use of humanoid robots 
and web -based chat  bots to perform instructor‘s tasks and functions independently or in cooperation 
with the instructors. Instructors were able to implement many management responsibilities such as 
monitoring and grading stude nt‘s assignments, using these platforms more effectively and 
efficiently, which to improve the quality of their instructional activities. On the other hand, the 
system utilises machine learning and flexibility, content and curriculum have been adjusted and  
modified to meet student needs improving overall learning experiences as well as increasing 
learning effectiveness and maintenance.  
  
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
75 Advantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[27] Artificial Intelligence (AI) applications are used to integrate human intelligence in order to 
solve problems or taking decisions. AI allows the advantages of permanency, reliability, and cost -
effectiveness which also resolves uncertainty and speed in solving problems or taking decisions. AI 
is applied and developing in vari ous fields and professions like Engineering, Economics, 
Linguistics, Law, Manufacturing, Medicine, and for a variety of modelling, Prediction, decision 
support and control applications. The use of Internet in search engines has been rigorous and became 
one of the most emerging applications of AI.[28] Despite the utmost efforts it is well known that 
humans exhibit many emotions in their day to day lives which affects their work in a negative way. 
But machines and programs with artificial intelligence do not require sleep and doesn‘t get tired 
eradicating the basic disadvantage of humans. Artificial Intelligence makes decisions and works 
based on facts rather than emotions. Through artificial intelligence knowledge can be conveyed and 
spread more easily. Once a programs or application gets updated or trained for something, it can be 
readily available to others which saves the time and efforts.[29] Artificial Intelligence has many 
benefits. It allows an opportunity to develop completely and automate to the histo ry of artificial 
robots. Finishing the given task faster than humans, can complete the stressful and exhausting work 
easily, solving complex problems in short period of time, multi -tasking, high success ratio compared 
to humans, less errors in task and def ects, more accuracy in short time, calculations of long term and 
complex situations and discovering unexplored things like outer space are some of the main 
advantages of Artificial Intelligence.[30] Human labour can be reduced by replacing people by 
comput ers and machines. Continuously programming, self -writing, self -modifying makes humans 
exhausted. By using AI, the work will be fast and profitable. AI can be implemented easily. Modern 
advanced companies use digital assistants or bots to engage with people  minimizing the need for 
human resources. Many online websites are also designed and runed using digital assistants to 
provide customers with the item they desire. We can make computers make decisions by merging AI 
and other technologies to perform actions  faster than humans. Many people actually who are 
unaware of Artificial Intelligence use the applications such as Apple‘s Siri, Microsoft‘s Cortana, 
Google‘s OK Google commonly and easily to find locations, taking a selfie, making a phone call 
and for many  other uses.[31] Robotics is a study of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine 
Learning (MI). Machine Learning is said to be today‘s most powerful and profitable, artificial 
intelligences created. It exhibits relatively a limited range of intelligent beh aviour. Machine 
Learning algorithms are mostly designed to perform one task to generate accurate predictions.  In 
today‘s world people opt for automation in every aspect possible. Robots and Intelligent machines 
can not only provide assistance and convenien ce but also lifesaving capabilities. Robots are used in 
medical diagnostics purposes which have high accuracy. They are also used to examine dangerous 
activities and objects using remote control and integrated camera systems. In situations like defusing 
a bomb without a human being in close with it, robots are a very good use. The 'Robo Gas 
Inspector,'23 a robot equipped with remote gas detecting technology, can inspect technical 
infrastructure even in difficult -to-reach regions without endangering humans, such as to detect leaks 
in above -ground and underground gas pipelines.[32] Furthermore, it will have a substantial impact 
on business and employment, leading to high interconnecting organizations with decision making 
based on the analysis and utilization o f big data as well as increased global competitiveness among 
business. People will be able to buy things and get services from anywhere around the globe using 
Internet and other AI oriented innovations. Significant competitive advantage will continue to 
accumulate for those who want to take entrepreneurial risks to make extensive use of the Internet 
and transform innovative products/services into global commercial success stories.   ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
76 Challenges or Disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence  
[33] Some of the main disadvantages of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is that it can be misused resulting 
in large scale disaster, affecting Human careers and jobs, it is sometimes done in opposite way to the 
given command and mismatches, increased Unemploym ent, no creativity, it lacks Human touch, 
people become adapted to the automation and gets lazy and technological reliance increased.[34] 
Some of the equipment are expensive and it isn‘t easy to develop the machines. It costs time and 
resources to create, rebuild and repair which involves humans to lead the entire process. Humans 
addict to these innovations and technologies which effects the future generations in a negative way. 
Many companies and organizations are trying to replace the least skilled employ ees to AI robots that 
can perform similar work more effectively. Machines are definitely best when it comes to effective 
performance but replacing human connection that create the team. Machines cannot develop bond 
with humans which is a crucial aspect whe n it comes to Team Management. Machines can only 
work and accomplish it‘ s tasks for which they are built or programmed, anything beyond their limit 
causes them to crash or deliver unrelated outputs and errors which is a serious drawback.[35] It is a 
fact that rise of AI technology not only give automated products but will also automate people jobs 
which eventually leads to massive unemployment. In future there would be no source for 
programmers. As told the goal, after all, should be a technology that bene fits people but not one that 
destroys them. [36] An emerging iteration of A utonomous Weapon Systems (AWS) combining with 
AI systems foreshadows a strong interaction of increased range, accuracy, mass, adjustment, 
intelligence and speed in future collisions . As a result, the risk of increasing use -them -or-lose-them 
scenarios between nuclear -armed military forces and the attendant dangers posed by the use of 
unreliable, unverified and dangerous AWS will increase, resulting in potentially terrible strategic 
outcomes. It disturbs the World peace and affects many people around the world if utilised in a 
wrong way. [37] Though Artificial Intelligence is automated it still has to gain trust of humans in 
many aspects. According to human nature, people tend to stand a way from things that are 
complicated. AI still should be reliable and easy to understand in various fields. The industrial sector 
also lacks advanced technical staff related to this technology, so owners must be able to train 
employees properly to ensure t he benefits of artificial intelligence. We know that humans are not 
perfect but how can a manmade machine can be totally perfect? In case of any technology‘s 
software or hardware crashes, it is too hard to find the main cause of the problem sometimes. AI 
can't replace everything but can increases the productivity of all tasks. AI can manage everyday life, 
many tasks, many processes, and even minute thing but this may be true to some extent only, not all 
tasks can be managed by AI. The biggest challenge faci ng society and businesses is to take 
advantage of the benefits of using AI technology to provide vast opportunities for new products or 
services and tremendous productivity improvements.  Every technology has its own limitations. AI is 
still in its  early an d initial phases and has a lot to deliver and progress.  
 
Conclusion  
In my opinion, even if Artificial Intelligence isn‘t completely developed it is showing its strong 
potential in various sectors of our lives. Many Big companies today run -on Artificial Int elligence. 
AI today influenced many daily activities in a human life both personally and professionally. People 
of almost all ages depend on AI for their daily needs. As humans can‘t give an automated work 
always, he chooses an automated machine to work fo r him. Most of the comforts people 
experiencing now a days are delivered by AI. Although the intelligent machines and gaming Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
77 software were created and developed by humans, it is really tough to a human to compete with an AI 
oriented application or bots. Th e good thing about AI is that it can solve problems ranging from 
simple to complex applicative difficulties, as well asmake decisions in real world situations allowing 
people to use this more efficiently.  
 
References  
Abdulov, R. (2020). Artificial intellig ence as an important factor of sustainable and crisis -free 
economic growth.  Procedia Computer Science , 169, 468 -472. 
Allen, G., & Chan, T. (2017).  Artificial intelligence and national security . Cambridge, MA: 
BelferCenter for Science and International Affairs.  
Alshehri, F., & Muhammad, G. (2020). A Comprehensive Survey of the Internet of Things (IoT) 
and Edge Computing in Healthcare.  IEEE Access . 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Briganti, G., & Le Moine, O. (2020). Artificial intelligence in medicine: today and 
tomorrow.  Frontiers in medicine , 7, 27. 
Brundage, M., Avin, S., Clark, J., Toner, H., Eckersley, P., Garfink el, B., ... &Amodei, D. (2018). 
The malicious use of artificial intelligence: Forecasting, prevention, and mitigation.  arXiv 
preprint arXiv:1802.07228 . 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -
53.[5]  
Charniak, E. (1985).  Introduction to artificial intelligence . Pearson Education India.  
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review.  Ieee Access , 8, 
75264 -75278.  
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y.  J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Chowdhury, M., &Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial 
intelligence.  Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -
375. 
Devedžić, V. (2004). Web intelligence and artificial intelligence in education.  Educational 
technology & society , 7(4), 29 -39. 
Dick, S. (2019). Artificial intelligence.  
Furman, J. (2016). Is th is time different? The opportunities and challenges of artificial 
intelligence.  presentation, AI Now: The Social and Economic Implications of Artificial 
Intelligence Technologies in the Near Term, New York, NY . 
Ghimire, A., Thapa, S., Jha, A. K., Adhikari,  S., & Kumar, A. (2020, October). Accelerating 
business growth with big data and artificial intelligence. In  2020 Fourth International 
Conference on I -SMAC (IoT in Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud)(I -SMAC)  (pp. 441 -
448). IEEE.  
Gong, S., Loy, C. C., & Xi ang, T. (2011). Security and surveillance. In  Visual analysis of 
humans  (pp. 455 -472). Springer, London.  
Jaakkola, H., Henno, J., Mäkelä, J., &Thalheim, B. (2019, May). Artificial intelligence yesterday, 
today and tomorrow. In  2019 42nd International Conve ntion on Information and 
Communication Technology, Electronics and Microelectronics (MIPRO)  (pp. 860 -867). 
IEEE.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
78 Johnson, J. (2019). Artificial intelligence & future warfare: implications for international 
security.  Defense& Security Analysis , 35(2), 147 -169. 
Johnson, J. (2020). Artificial intelligence, drone swarming and escalation risks in future 
warfare.  The RUSI Journal , 165(2), 26 -36. 
Katare, G., Padihar, G., & Qureshi, Z. (2018). Challenges in the integration of artificial intelligence 
and internet of  things.  International Journal of System and Software Engineering , 6(2), 10 -
15. 
Kaul, V., Enslin, S., & Gross, S. A. (2020). History of artificial intelligence in 
medicine.  Gastrointestinal endoscopy , 92(4), 807 -812. 
Khanzode, K. C. A., &Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Khanzode, K. C. A., &Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of A rtificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Koller, W., Rappelsberger, A., Willinger, B., Kleinoscheg, G., &Adlassnig, K. P. (2021). Artificial 
Intelligence in i nfection control —healthcare institutions need intelligent information and 
communication technologies for surveillance and benchmarking. In  Soft Computing for 
Biomedical Applications and Related Topics  (pp. 37 -48). Springer, Cham.  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu,  W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
Makridakis, S. (2017). The forthcoming Artificial Intelligence (AI) revolution: Its impact on society 
and firms.  Futures , 90, 46-60. 
McCarthy, J. (1998). What is artificial intelligence?.  
Racine, E., Boehlen, W., & Sample, M. (2019, September). Healthcare uses of artificial intelligence: 
Challenges and op portunities for growth. In  Healthcare management forum  (Vol. 32, No. 5, 
pp. 272 -275). Sage CA: Los Angeles, CA: SAGE Publications.  
Roll, I., & Wylie, R. (2016). Evolution and revolution in artificial intelligence in 
education.  International Journal of Arti ficial Intelligence in Education , 26(2), 582 -599. 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016], 5(6).  
Wan, J., Li, X., Dai, H. N., Kusiak, A., Martínez -García, M., & Li, D. (2020). Artificia l-intelligence -
driven customized manufacturing factory: key technologies, applications, and 
challenges.  Proceedings of the IEEE , 109(4), 377 -398. 
Wisskirchen, G., Biacabe, B. T., Bormann, U., Muntz, A., Niehaus, G., Soler, G. J., & von 
Brauchitsch, B. (2017). Artificial intelligence and robotics and their impact on the 
workplace.  IBA Global Employment Institute , 11(5), 49 -67. 
Woolf, B.P. (2010). Building Intelligent Interactive Tutors: Student -Centered Strategies for 
Revolutionizing e -Learning. Morgan K aufmann, 11.  
Zeba, G., Dabić, M., Ĉiĉak, M., Daim, T., & Yalcin, H. (2021). Technology mining: Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing.  Technological Forecasting and Social Change , 171, 120971.  
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
79 LiFi TECHNOLOGY  
 
ADITYA RAY  
 
ALIASGAR AMIR MERCHANT  
 
RIDDHI  DWIVEDI  
Email ID: thita65pi@gmail.com  
 
Abstract  
With the onset of the 20th century, there was an exponential rise in the number of internet  (WiFi) users, as a 
result of which the network speed consequently  decreased. To overcome this obstacle the concept of LiFi was 
introduced by the German physicist Herald Haas in which data in the form of light is transmitted through a 
LED light bulb, whose intensity varies in speed much faster than what the human eyes ca n follow. It is 
expected to be the technology of the future, which can provide data to the masses at a consistent rate of 
10Mbps which is much faster than the existent average broadband speed.  
Keywords: LiFi, WiF i, the VLC  (Visibl e Light Communication ), LE D (Light Emitting Diode ), wireless 
communication  
 
Introduction  
In this modern age, human dependence on the internet  through both wired and wireless networks has 
been increasing exponentially. Due to day to day increment in the number of users of the wireless  
network, the speed of data transmission is consequently getting reduced. The average Wi -Fi speed of 
150 Mbps  is often insufficient to accommodate such a large  number of active users. To overcome 
this limitation, the concept of Li -Fi technology cam e into view. Li -Fi here stands for Light Fidelity. 
It is the brainchild of German physicist Herald Haas and was first showcased in his TED Global talk 
on VLC. The concept behind this technology involves the transmission of data through visible light 
(LED) which varies in intensity which is faster than what human eyes can follow. Addition of 
unutilized bandwidth of visible light offered by Lai-Fi resolves the issue of network trafficking 
faced by current Wi -Fi systems. It offers a broader frequency band  when  compared to the one 
available in Radio Fre quency (RF) communications. Further, it helps in eliminating health concerns 
due to electromagnetic waves associated with Wi -Fi. Taking advantage of the low-cost nature of 
lightening units and LED lights, opens va rious fields of applications ranging from public internet 
access through street lamps to communication of automobiles through their headlights. Li -Fi can 
hence be termed as the technology for the future, where the light in a room could be used to transmit 
data through smartphones , laptops and tablets.  
 
Literary Survey  
[1] Current Wi -Fi systems are subjected to certain problems like a lackof available  spectrum, 
efficiency, health concerns and security. LiFi is one of the strongest candidates to solve these 
problems. LiFi uses LED as the transmitter which uses visible light gives us some advantages as 
LED is non -toxic, can fluctuate very quickly, data can be transmitted at an intensity invisible to 
human eyes, produces more power than incandescent lamps, the v isible light could give us speed in 
Gigabits per second. With different sizes of LED, we can get different speeds. There are certain LiFi 
modulation schemes can be used example On -Off Keying (OOK), Variable Pulse Position ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
80 Modulation (VPPM), Colour Shift Ke ying (CSK), Sub -Carrier Inverse ( SCIPPM), Frequency Shift 
Keying (FSK) and Sub -Carrier Index Modulation (SIM -OFDM). There are certain high-speed  
models that have been tested: Giga Shower, Giga Spot, Giga -MIMO and some other in -house 
communication models. This has many applications, example, and communications inside airlines 
which don‘t interfere with the aircraft signals, underwater communications, traffic, Gigabit 
technology and in hospitals. Like Wi-Fi, it also comes with some disadvantages the most pro minent 
being visible light cannot pass through opaque objects and the high cost of installation. [2] In order 
to overcome the shortcomings of WiFi Harald Haas, a professor  at the University of Edinburgh, 
proposed the LiFi technology. The 5G technology uses  LED to transfer data. LiFi is preferable for 
transferring a large  amount of data in the speed of Gigabits. Modulations used in the LiFi systems 
are based on the principle of intensity modulation, that is, information can be stored as varying  light 
intensi ties. Radio waves and low powered infrared waves are not reliable due to security concerns. 
Due to carcinogenic effects of gamma and UV radiations are strongly discouraged for 
communications. Moreover, the equipment  required for LiFi communications are alr eady available. 
LEDs are economically efficient in terms of energy hence gives a cheap data transfer. Since  
communication solely depends on the lightthere is no cost for WiFi  equipment  like routers. [3] Lifi 
stands for ‗Light Fidelity‘ which uses visible l ight instead of radio waves. Father of LiFi, Harald 
Hass, considers that the intensity  and potential of the LED lie at the heart of this technology. LiFi is 
a cheaper and faster alternative to WiFi. Visible Light Communication (VLC) technique uses a 
freque ncy of 400THz to 800THz as carrier waves. VLC is better than higher frequencies like Gama 
rays and ultraviolet waves as these are carcinogenic. VLC is also better than a lower frequency as 
infrared is dangerous and radio waves are not secure and expensive.  It can be used in the hospitals, 
medical instruments, in traffic lights which can reduce the chances of accidents and also in chemical 
plants where other frequencies could be dangerous. [4] LiFi is  a good step towards internet of things, 
where  everything is interconnected, with LED as a transmitter . The li -fi market has already been 
benefitting from this technology. It has the capability  of high-speed  data transmission through a light 
embedded on a microchip which is much faster than the curren t internet speed. LiFi has 4 basic or 
primary sub -assemblies: bulb, RF power amplifier circuit (PA), printed circuit boards (PCB) and 
enclosure. The PCB takes care of the inputs and outputs of the lamp which is managed by the 
microcontroller for different functions. The input power is amplified and transferred to the bulb 
where a high power concentration vaporizes the content of the bulb converting it into plasma. This 
plasma can be controlled to produce to produce a pulse of data. All these are kept in an aluminium  
enclosure. The bulb sub -assembly is embedded in a dielectric material which concentrates the 
electric field in the bulb. This assembly is better than the conventional ways in which we used 
degradable electrodes instead of dielectrics. [5] In this  20th century, mostly everyone is familiar with 
WiFi, which has become an absolute necessity for delivering wireless access of internet around 
homes, offices, colleges, hospitals, and many other public places. However just like most of the 
technologies, ev en it has its own limitations. With the advancement of science, it is obvious that new 
technologies are bound to be developed which could help overcome these limitations. This is what 
led to the advent of LiFi, where visible light is the source of data tra nsmission, it offers a totally new 
paradigm in wireless technologies, offering higher speed, more flexibility and better usability. The 
standard wireless communication speed is around 500mbps, as compared WiFi‘s 50 -100 Mbps . As it 
uses light instead of rad io frequency signals, it could be used in aircraft , medical devices in hospitals 
and other places where internet, Bluetooth and WiFi is banned due to safety reasons. Further,  it can Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
81 also be used underwater where other forms of data transmission are not exp ected to work. It is also 
more secure as it cannot penetrate through walls and hence cannot be intercepted or misused  which 
minimizes its vulnerability to hackers. Further it can be used to control traffic through 
communication between the LED backlights a nd headlights of vehicles in order to prevent accidents. 
[6] LiFi works on LED lights, which are a source of illumination when provided with a constant 
current. When these currents are varied at a rapid rate, the resulting light output can be made to vary 
at extremely high speeds. For further better outputs LEDs can be used in an array for parallel 
transmission or an amalgam of three basic colors, green red and blue are used as they have different 
frequencies and consequently different data channels. The ba sic principle involves the use of data 
from the internet and the local network to modulate the intensity of the LED light source in a way 
undetectable to the human eye. The photodetector  picks up the signal, which is converted back into a 
data stream and s ent to the client. The client can communicate through its own LED output or over 
the existing network. With the establishment of new technologygives such as 3G and 4G, the 
capacity of the radio spectrum is drying up. In comparison,  the visible light spectr um has a lot more 
spectrum space due to the presence of already installed light boxes. The only major obstacle which 
is hindering the progress of LiFi technology is the requirement of line of sight and the inability of 
light waves to penetrate thick object s such as brick walls. [7] In visible light communication the 
visible lights frequency range is from 400 THz to 800 THz. The various components present in the 
system include  a very bright white LED, which is the communication source and a silicon 
photodiod e that responds well to rays in the visible  wavelength region. The light source (LED) is 
used for communication by modulating it with the data signal. Due to its fast flickering rate, it 
appears as if the light is constant. Different LEDs transmit at a dif ferent data rate, the speed of which 
can further be increased using LED arrays. LiFi technology includes several benefits apart from its 
ability to be used in certain places where other forms of a network  like Bluetooth, WiFi etc do not 
work. These benefit s include the wide wavelength range, high magnitude colour  fidelity, instant start 
time, easy modulation of the light output for enhancing video contrast and easy terminal 
management. With light which is easily available being the major source of this tech nology, this 
technology can be of immense benefit to mankind in various fields such as industry, medicine, 
education and the like. [8] The Li -Fi technology came as the best solution to offload a large  part of 
traffic from the overcrowded RF domain. It is s o far the best alternative as it uses Visible Light 
Communication. The spectrum of visible light has a broader  range of bandwidth which is way more 
than the RF spectrum. As this concept uses visible light which has a speed of 1080 million km/hr, 
the rate o f transmission of data is very high and cannot be followed by human eyes. Sometime back 
the R&D centre of pure VLC was able to achieve a data rate of 3.5Gbps from a single colour  led 
which operated at 5mW at a distance of 1 m and a rate of 10 m at a distan ce of 10 m. so it was 
deduced that with the use of 3 colours  led the rate of transmission would be more than 10Gbps.  
 Li-Fi technology providing reliable, cheap and secure communication has application in 
hospitals,  home appliances, the petrochemical  indus try and indoor navigation. So Li -Fi systems will 
change the world of wireless communication in greener ways.[9] Li -Fi technology would change the 
future of wireless communication. It has the capacity to provide fast internet connectivity and a 
broader  spectrum. It could be said to be an optimized version of Wi -Fi. It would be using light from 
the visible region instead of using the infrared rays to transmit data. Data is encoded in the flickering 
light which will give various different patterns of 1s and 0s . Since the rapid modulation of intensity,  
the output seems to be constant. Li -Fi can overcome all the hindrance caused  by Wi -Fi like capacity, ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
82 availability, efficiency, security. The bandwidth of light is 1000 times broader than radio waves. It 
consumes l ess energy and has a higher efficiency. Availability won‘t be an issue since light sources 
are everywhere. Theoretically,  it will provide a speed of 1 to 10 Gbps. This technology is facing 
some challenges in its implementation. The access of internet would  be lost if the source 
malfunctions. Since light can penetrate through the opaque  object anybody could easily block it. 
Change of weather is also a major problem if the system is set up outdoors. A technology with such 
vast possibilities if implemented can  change our lives and make it more technology driven. [10] 
Light fidelity which is dubbed as Li -Fi uses light to transmit data rather than radio is the emerging 
technology that will make access to data very easy. Although any kind of light source can be us ed to 
transmit data some are given priorities because of their operational properties. Therefore LEDs with 
equipped transmitters will be the best source. The basis of the visible light communication is the 
Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing. used t o convert data in the electric  pulse. To enable 
communication at the high-speed  light is modulated without interfering with  the illumination 
property of source. The system has applications in many fields but still lacks in a few areas which 
need more resea rch. Application specific circuits are required to form a miniature of this technology. 
Soon it will overcome the few obstacles in its implementation and status of data will change from 
online to on light.  
 
Findings  
LiFi technology has a great potential for becoming a major part of the upcoming 5G technology. 
This technology can give us tremendous speed in Gbps with the help of modern technologies. LED 
light has played a key role in LiFi as it is cost as well as energ y efficient. It detects the light 
fluctuations. LED could send a large  amount of data in a comparatively less time. The only major 
drawback of this technology is that it cannot pass through opaque objects. It also has a broader 
frequency bandwidth of 400 T Hz- 800 THz. Technology like this with such a wide  area of 
implementation will change the world of wireless communication for the better .  
 
Conclusion  
It can be concluded that Li -Fi is indeed the technology of the future, and it would play a major role 
in the scientific arena in the upcoming years, provided we find an apt solution to the few existing 
obstacles. Li -Fi could be of immense help in various fields such as education, medicine, industry 
and other related fields. Once put into practical use a mere bulb could be used as a Wi -Fi hotspot for 
efficient transmission of data as we would parallelly proceed towards a Greener and a safer future.  
 
References  
Bhut , J. H., Parmar, D. N., & Mehta, K. V. (2014). LI -FI Technology –A Visible Light 
Communication.  
Garg, R. (2012). Li -Fi: Data Onlight Instead of Online.  a National Journal of Computer Science & 
Applications , 1. 
Hassan, S., & Saeed, K. (2017). Li -Fi Technology: Data Transmission through Visible Light.  World 
Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology, International Journal of Electrical, 
Computer, Energetic, Electronic and Communication Engineering , 11(7), 917 -920. 
Kumar, S. V., Sudhakar, K., & Rani, L. S. (2014). Emerging Technology Li -Fi over Wi -
Fi. International Journal of Inventive Engineering and Sciences (IJIES) , 2(3). Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
83 Mishra, P., Poddar, J., & Priya, S.(2016). A review on LiFi: the green WiFi. Int Res J EngTechnol, 
3,99-103. 
Mutthamma, M. (2013). A survey on Transmission of data through illumination -Li-
Fi. IJRCCT , 2(12), 1427 -1430.  
Navyatha, N., Prathyusha, T. M., Roja, V., & Mounika, M. (2013). Li -Fi (Light fidelity) -LED Based 
Alternative.  International Journal of Scientific & Engineering Research , 4(5), 1039 -1042.  
Polshetwar Poonam, V., & Siddiqui, M. S. (2014). Li -Fi Technology.  Polshetwar  Poon am V. et 
al,/(IJCSIT) International Journal of Computer Science and Information Technologies , 5(6), 
8031 -8032.  
Sarkar, A., Agarwal, S., & Nath, A. (2015). Li -Fi technology: Data transmission through visible 
light.  International Journal of Advanced  Research  in Computer Science and Management 
Studies , 3(6). 
Swami, N. V. (2015). Li -Fi (light fidelity) –the changing scenario of wireless 
communication.  IJRET: International Journal of Research in Engineering and Technology 
e-ISSN , 2319 -1163.  
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
84 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IS NOT A MATTER OF  
SCIENCE FICTION  
 
KHUSHI TELI  
B. Tech Computer Science  
Email ID: khushi.teli2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is AI?  
[1] It is the science of manufacturing intelligent machines. It is relatable to recognize human 
intelligence but  it doesn‘t limit the methods which are related biologically. It is the analytical part of 
the potential to achieve goals. It is the ability of a machine to complete or perform the tasks that are 
usually done by humans.  It‘s analogous task of utilizing computer to understand human intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence (AI) is intelligence demonstrated by machines, as opposed to natural 
intelligence displayed by animals including humans. [2] It is an idea to make machines capable such 
that th ey can perform tasks such as learning, self -correction etc which are related to human 
intelligence. By improving the programming method we can study the use of machines effectively. 
The use of mechanical tools has expanded the use of human intellect by uti lising computers.AI 
means to develop systems that think like and behave like humans, they think and behave rationally. 
Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956, and in the years since has 
experienced several waves of optimism, followed by disappointment and the loss of funding (known 
as an ―AI winter‖),followed by new approaches, success and renewed funding.  
 
History of AI  
[3] Alan Turing proposed a definition fro determining whether or not the software is intelligent in 
1950. T he history of artificial intelligences the history of dreams, potential, demonstration and 
promise. The beginning AI was considered to be science fiction then there were inventions in the 
fields like electronics which proved it wasn‘t just imagination. Som e of the early phases of AI 
include language understanding and translation, solving theorems etc. [4]The first work which is 
now recognized as AI was done by Warren McCulloch and Walter pits in 1943. Donald Hebb 
demonstrated an updating rule for modifying the connection strength between neurons. His rule is 
now called Hebbian learning.  When AI was first described there were several limitations for 
acceptance on medicine. Many of these limitations were overcome by deep learning. Now the AI are 
capable for so lving complex problems as well as algorithms. Work efficiency in medical field is 
really improved by using it such as diagnostic accuracy etc. Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz seemed to 
believe that mechanical reasoning devices could be used to resolve conflicts using logic rules.  Both 
Leibniz and Pascal created calculating machines, which has previously been in the domain of the 
trained individual. In the year1966, the researchers emphasized developing algorithms which can 
solve mathematical problems. Joseph Weiz enbaum created the first chat  bot in 1966, whichh was 
named as ELIZA  
 
Growth of AI  
[5] Artificial intelligence can be used everywhere in the production of goods and services affecting 
the economic growth and income distribution. It is increased a lot in the last decade. AI has been 
advancing in terms of resources as well as in outputs. I t can beat a human in various games that Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
85 require complex strategy. Virtual assistants such as Alexa and Siri,  and Amazon‘s new cashier -less 
and cash -less grocery stores has developed recently which eases our work. The growth in this field 
has a variety of applications in health -care, security, manufacturing and production etc. A lot of 
solutions such as AI-specific commission, to data portability, to UBI and other strategies  has been 
used due to increase in economy due increase in use of AI.[6]Journalistic organizations can easily 
keep up with current events and produce content that accurately summarizes evolving circumstances 
by applying these sophisticated algorithms to vast amounts of data from press releases, tweets, 
articles, and other unstructured cont ent. AI may alter the way in which we develop ideas and 
technology assisting the solution of complicated issues and creative .We see AI as the new type of 
automation that has the potential to automate the processes that were previously thought impossible 
to automate. It has affected economic growth and income shares widely. It can help to solve 
problems in a more effective manner. In span of year it has also changed the process of creating new 
ideas and technologies. It is being used to collect information from different sources instantly. AI 
systems are increasingly being used by content and news organisations to discover data from various 
sources and instantly summarize it into content or supporting analysis for those articles.  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliance s 
[7]At the initial stage, technology was merely used to automate the most routine and monotonous 
tasks and cut down on the use of paper through digitization of health records while also aiding in the 
easy flow of this information among insurance companies , hospitals, and patients.  sensors are some 
appealing sciences for fostering centres and technology growth in the current society because of vast 
usage in personal electronic gadgets and industrial monitoring. There are some healthcare devices 
such as flex ible pressure sensors made with the help of AI have some advantages such as they are of 
low cost and provide extra flexibility. There are many health care devices in which you can have 
very promising applications. [8] It is also used in data management for  maintaining records of 
numerous patients at a time. It becomes very difficult to store that data in pages so it helps to collect, 
store, re -layout, and trace data to offer faster, more consistent access. Data management is one of the 
most important applic ations of AI and used widely. [9] There are some mobile apps that can monitor 
our health for example: m -health. There are also watches which can determine our heartbeats and 
emotional condition of the user. Such applications built on the mobile helps us in  generating a self -
health report. Due to lack of social care to the old people it is necessary to develop a cost effective 
assisting healthcare  technological solutions for the care of the elderly and providing them with the 
most technical friendly experien ce possible.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[10] In the has few decades, AI has become a major part of manufacturing smart machines and has a 
major part in modern industries. Industrial AI also known as IAI has critical technologies for the 
evolution of industrial manufacturing. Deep neural networks, adversarial training, and transfer 
learning are some of the methods used for the maintenance of the production process. [11]  It 
improves the competition in the market as well as provides high efficiency, h igh quality, cost -
effective, and environment -friendly service for users. It eases the evolution of new model system 
architecture and technology systems. Manufacturing requires acute attention to detail, a necessity 
that‘s only exacerbated in the electronic s space. Historically speaking, quality assurance has been a 
manual job, requiring a highly skilled engineer to ensure that electronics and microprocessors were ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
86 being manufactured correctly and that all of its circuits were properly configured. [12] There are 
developments specifically in semiconductor manufacturing. The main aim of this is to provide 
perception of the latest improvement in the research community which includes maintenance and 
manufacturing. The majority of these systems cannot still learn o r integrate new information, 
resulting in countless false -positives, which then have to be manually checked by an on -site 
employee.  
 [13] AI can be used to spot cyber threats and possibly malicious activities. Traditional software 
systems simply cannot kee p pace with the sheer number of new malware created every week, so this 
is an area AI can really help with. Now -a-days these are used for facial recognition, biometrics for 
more safety purposes. Governments are also using these tools to achieve or advance their political 
careers. It is used for reasonable purposes as well as illegal digital monitoring. [14] It provides the 
security against the cyber -crime. The AI can perform cyber -attacks using advanced viruses for 
evading the security perimeters. The Artificial Neutral Network  (ANN) is used in cases to provide 
extreme s ecurity. [15] The UAV is equipped with camera equipped with cameras can capture 
images or videos to track targets such as people, vehicles or specific areas. In terms of ambient data 
and code driven connection now reach half of the world‘s population proje cting previously 
unimaginable potential as well as unexpected risks. AI presents many advantages and applications in 
a variety of areas, cyber  security being one of them. With fast -evolving cyber  attacks and rapid 
multiplication of devices happening today,  AI and machine learning can help to keep abreast with 
cybercriminals, automate threat detection, and respond more effectively than conventional software -
driven or manual techniques  
 
AI in Education  
[16] AI has already been applied to education primarily i n some tools that help develop skills and 
testing systems. AL based tools support learning sciences and these tools makes the understanding 
about the questions that are under investigation better. ITS provides a lot of flexibility  in terms of 
material pres entation and a lot of flexibility in terms of student‘s  unique requirement.[17]  By using 
AI platforms, teachers are able to perform different administrative functions, such as evaluating 
marks more effectively and efficiently which saves time and develops a higher standard in their 
teaching.  [18] Adjusting learning based on an individual student‘s particular needs has been a 
priority for educators for years, but AI will allow a level of differentiation that‘s impossible for 
teachers who have to manage 30 st udents in each class. There are several companies. Students from 
different countries can learn and experience different cultures. AI can help in in -person online 
learning which helps the instructor to bridge the gap between the educator and the learners. A I has 
become one of the most fundamental, widespread and inescapable feature of daily lives, despite of 
its frequently concealing nature, from Siri to auto - journalism, from stock market forecast to crime 
prediction by facial recognition to medical diagnos is and beyond.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[19] AI has one of the most important advantage that its decisions are not based on emotions. On the 
other hand, even if humans make their utmost effort the decisions are still affected in a negative wat 
by emotions. [20] A I provides endurance, dependability and economical way and speed in solving 
the problems or giving a decision.  It also deals with qualitative as well as quantitative data. It can 
also judge and anticipate traffic conditions. [21] AI has full capability in detecting faults or errors in Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
87 a building energy system and learn different patterns from the data. Daily applications such as 
Apple‘s Siri, Window‘s Cortana, Google‘s OK Google are frequently used in our daily routine 
whether it is for searching a location , taking a selfie, making a phone call, replying to a mail and 
many more. [22]  To achieve clinically useful systems, both clinicians and technicians must 
cooperate to mitigate AI drawbacks. Although most of the current technological effort has been 
focused  on creating more precise polyp detection and classification tools, it remains a long path to 
be covered before adopting AI -based technology into the physician‘s daily work as an assistive tool 
for diagnosis decisions. [23] It has been applied in various fi elds such as engineering, economics, 
linguistics, law, manufacturing and medicine. Two sectors that are greatly served by the 
development of AI are library and Information Science. There is also a well organised expert system 
for Information processing and  management. It has also been installed in business, industrial, 
military, scientific sectors, academic and research organizations. An Average human will work for 
4–6 hours a day excluding the breaks. Humans are built in such a way to get some time out for  
refreshing themselves and get ready for a new day of work and they even have weekly offed to stay 
intact with their work -life and personal life. But using AI we can make machines work 24x7 without 
any breaks and they don‘t even get bored, unlike humans.  
 
Challenges or Dis -advantages of AI  
[24] These are difficult to develop because the equipment required really expensive. It takes a large 
amount of time and cash to create, rebuild, and repair.[25] Deep AI solutions highly rely on 
Graphical Processing Units  for fast processing. Processing Units is incredibly slow and hence 
unfeasible. AI is updating every day the hardware and software need to get updated with time to 
meet the latest requirements. Machines need repairing and maintenance which need plenty of c osts. 
It‘ s creation requires huge costs as they are very complex machines. [26] It can be used for mass 
scale destruction, increases unemployment, requires a lot of money and time, sometimes lacks in 
creativity. Due to lack of activities younger generatio n becomes lazy. [27] Most of the AI related 
ideas are implemented at the professional level, the idea of AI attaching more importance to 
integrating AI into business English education than in government and schools. [28] It disconnects 
students from teache rs because it lacks emotions. Teachers fear their positions will be taken by the 
robots but robots cannot closely monitor the students personally in their classes. It lacks in the 
quality of team management. They cannot replace humans because they cannot m ake a bind with 
them this is the most important quality for team management. Machines can perform only those 
tasks which they are designed or programmed to do, anything out of that they tend to crash or give 
irrelevant outputs which could be a major backdr op 
 
Challenges or Dis -advantages of AI  
It the side of our life which always surprises us with new ideas, innovations, topics, etc.  We have 
researched about a lot of topics in AI such as growth, healthcare,  education, security, manufacture 
and production. Some of the experts predict that AI can do better than humans as it has a lot of 
advantages but there are also some disadvantages. This is not the end of the topic there is a lot more, 
who knows what standar ds will AI reach up to and surprise us. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a broad 
branch of computer science that is focused on a machine‘s capability to produce rational behavior 
from external inputs. The goal of AI is to create systems that can perform tas ks that would otherwise 
require human intelligence. It identifies patterns, analyses past data to infer the meaning of these ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
88 data points to reach a possible conclusion without having to involve human experience. This 
automation to reach conclusions by eval uating data, saves a human time for businesses and helps 
them make a better decision. If AI were to develop to the point that it can do everything better than 
humans, it would mean that it would also do better in science and technology. It may decide that it is 
no longer worthwhile to develop a certain field of research – or it may decide space travel is a waste 
of time as long as humans on earth are living in poverty and more than a billion people have no 
access to clean drinking water. Most scenarios abou t future AI are hypothetical, but AI presents us 
with existential questions. It shows that where science stops, philosophy and spirituality begin.  
 
Reference s  
Aghion, P., Jones, B. F., & Jones, C. I. (2019).  9. Artificial Intelligence and Economic Growth  (pp. 
237-290). University of Chicago Press.  
Alotaibi, S. R. (2020). Applications of artificial intelligence and big data analytics in m -health: a 
healthcare system perspective.  Journal of Healthcare Engineering , 2020 . [10] Ding, H., 
Gao, R. X., Isaksson, A. J., Landers, R. G., Parisini, T., & Yuan, Y. (2020). State of AI -
based monitoring in smart manufacturing and introduction to focused section.  IEEE/ASME 
Transactions on Mechatronics , 25(5), 2143 -2154.  
Arivudainambi, D., KA, V. K., &Visu, P. (2019). Malwa re traffic classification using principal 
component analysis and artificial neural network for extreme surveillance.  Computer 
Communications , 147, 50-57  
Artificial intelligence: definition, trends, techniques, and cases.  Artificial  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V ., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53.  
Chen,  L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review.  Ieee Access , 8, 
75264 -75278.  
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review.  Ieee Access , 8, 
75264 -75278.  
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S. , Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Chowdhury, M., &Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. Ar tificial 
intelligence applications to critical transportation issues, 6(3), 360 -375. 
Feldstein, S. (2019).  The global expansion of AI surveillance  (Vol. 17). Washington, DC: Carnegie 
Endowment for International Peace.  
Furman, J., & Seamans, R. (2019). AI and the Economy.  Innovation policy and the economy , 19(1), 
161-191.  
Guo, M. Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial Intelligence In Business English Teaching.  
Holmes, W., Bialik, M., & Fadel, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education.  Boston: Cen ter for 
Curriculum Redesign .  
intelligence,  1, 270 -299  
Kaul, V., Enslin, S., & Gross, S. A. (2020). History of artificial intelligence in 
medicine.  Gastrointestinal endoscopy , 92(4), 807 -812. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
89 Khanzode, K. C. A., &Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disad vantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Kok, J. N., Boers, E. J., Kosters, W. A., Van der Putten, P., &amp; Poel, M. (2009).  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96.  
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligenc e? 
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries. In  Conference: Bilingual 
International. Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Minist ry of Defence Delhi . 
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Nguyen, M. T., Truong, L. H., & Le, T. T. (2021). Video surveillance processing algorithms 
utilizing artificial intelligent (AI) for unmanned auton omous vehicles (UAVs).  MethodsX , 8, 
101472.  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016], 5(6).  
Tizhoosh, H. R., &Pantanowitz, L. (2018). Artificial intelligence and digital pathology: chal lenges 
and opportunities. Journal of pathology informatics, 9.  
Viscaino, M., Bustos, J. T., Muñoz, P., Cheein, C. A., &Cheein, F. A. (2021). Artificial intelligence 
for the early detection of colorectal cancer: A comprehensive review of its advantages and 
misconceptions.  World Journal of Gastroenterology , 27(38), 6399.  
Walczak, S. (2018). Artificial neural networks. In  Encyclopedia of Information Science and 
Technology, Fourth Edition  (pp. 120 -131). IGI Global.  
Zang, Y., Zhang, F., Di, C. A., & Zhu, D. (201 5). Advances of flexible pressure sensors toward 
artificial intelligence and health care applications.  Materials Horizons , 2(2), 140 -156.  
Zhao, Y., Li, T., Zhang, X., & Zhang, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence -based fault detection and 
diagnosis methods for building energy systems: Advantages, challenges and the 
future.  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews , 109, 85-101. 
 
 
 
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
9 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE: A PILLAR OF  
THE  MODERN SOCIETY  
 
MIDHUN  P 
B.Tech Chemical Engineering  
Email ID:  midhun.p2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is AI?  
[1] Artificial engineering is a branch of computer engineering which deals with the study and 
creation of intelligent computer programming. It refers to the concept of using computer intelligence 
in a similar way as human intelligence works which does not have to be bounded by any biological 
processes. Rather than studying people or animals, AI refers to the study of problems the world 
faces in terms of intelligence. AI is used to solve the errors and defects than exist in the system. AI 
helps in developing  a more luxurious lifestyle. AI researchers are provided with complete freedom 
to use any method that are not observed in people or which are strenuous for human intelligence. AI 
researchers are provided with the problems in which they can develop a certai n AI system which 
will help in solving the issue. The use of human intelligence to create and amend AI system is core 
of the development of AI system. [2] Artificial intelligence in a way is the evolution of thinking 
process which can be achieved through c omputational techniques. AI is not bounded by any general 
behavioural pattern associated with any mental faculty, it calculates all possible paths to the results 
and generally doesn‘t stick to ways that human intelligence takes. AI works on facts rather th an 
emotions, this helps in the development of a more rational system. [3] The emergence of Artificial 
intelligence in the modern times is considered as the fourth industrial revolution. Artificial 
intelligence is made to process huge amount of data so as r eplicate human intelligence in a vast 
scale. Programmed intelligence made by computational systems are more efficient and accurate in 
the society. According to certain studies,systems fused with AI software are seen to be more 
efficient.  
 
History of AI  
[4] Ever since the end of WWII, independent works on intelligent machines increased rapidly. Alan 
Turing an English mathematician was the first to get this started. In 1947 he delivered a lecture on it. 
The idea of AI being better researched by programming c omputers than building machines may 
have been decided by Alan Turing. The number of AI researchers flourished by the late 1950s and 
most of them based their works on programming computers. [5] The game chess is an enterprise that 
involves a lot of thinking  process. The machines built to play chess, especially ―the Turk‖, was 
presented as intelligent machines which managed to fool people into making them believe that the 
machines played autonomously. In a newspaper column, Samuel L. Clemens (―Mark Twain‖) wr ote 
that the Turk has to be machine as it played so well! During the early years of AI establishment, for 
the study of inference and representation mechanisms, chess was considered as a driving force for it.  
 
Growth of AI  
[6] The advancement of evolutionary algorithms was highly significant in the last decade in such a 
way that in many areas of science and engineering, human -competitive results were able to be ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
10 achieved which included evolution in the design of antennas, photonic crystals, search heuristics and 
quantum computer algorithms. With the incorporation of deep understanding of recent biological 
advances most of these results were achieved. Whenever a certain issue is addressed in a problem, 
further upgradation of the system is done to imp rovise it, this leads to the advancement of the system 
and the algorithm which it uses. As AI evolved over the course of time, people became more and 
more interested in it, this led to further research of this field. The use of human intelligence to 
develo p an AI system which is more effective than the human intelligence is the main motive of the 
AI researchers. [7] In order to tackle global crisis, there is a necessity of an AI system that can 
stabilise the inter  sectoral system which can build an effectiv e bond between the planning entities. 
Economic law‘s reflection is involved during the construction of such a system. Introduction of AI 
with these measures to the strategic planning system will clear a path in the reproduction of a 
national economy, an ea sing quantitative policy or a stimulant method can lead to an undue of 
capital present in the sector, etc. The successive establishment of many individual start -ups in this 
field has led to better economy as well as people begins to take more interest in t he field.  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[8] Health care system is being rapidly changed by artificial intelligence. With the help of 
comparison of big data and strong machine learning methods developers have begun to introduce 
more tools in the field of cl inical care to advanced medica research to improve their efficiency. 
Programs created from former health care data which helps in predicting and recommending 
advanced data rely on the different algorithms. But most of the times these algorithms are too 
complex to be explained easily. Such algorithms are sometimes termed as ―Black -box‖. [9] Some of 
the research study suggests that AI is as efficient or more efficient than humans at major healthcare 
events, including diagnosing a disease. In today‘s time algo rithms have already surpassed 
radiologists in identifying malicious tumours, and suggests methods on how to build cohorts for 
expensive clinical trials. Though, for a lot of reasons, it will take many years for AI to replace 
humans in the domain of healthc are which consists of wide medical processes. In machine learning, 
the most complex form is deep learning or called neural networking. It involves a number of 
variable as well as different levels which predict the correct outcomes. In such models, there ex ists 
many different kinds of hidden features which can be uncovered with the use of many different 
graphic processers and cloud -based architectures. The deep learning system is used in the radiology 
images, where cancerous lesions can be discovered. The fu sion of deep learning and radiology 
provides better accuracy in the analysis of radiology images. Deep learning or neural networking 
system is also used in the speech recognition. [10] The usage of robotics has drastically increased in 
medical all over the world. The non -invasive technology is highly supported by the robotics, which 
Is the major reason why robotics is so efficient in the surgical rooms. In other domains, because of 
their demanding accuracy rates surgeries with the help of robotics can be aid  to be minimally 
invasive, on the other hand human surgery compels doctors to create notch which may take a long 
time to heal and it can be painful. Unlike human specialists, robots are capable of using miniaturized 
surgical equipment. A surgeon will be ab le to control all these machines with the help of AI from a 
console.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[11] with the help of omnipresent strong computing networks, modern production and 
manufacturing systems can be highly supported. Inside these networks , a high amount of data is 
generated with the help of people, system, machines, smart devices, and sensors. These data is being Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
11 analysed at high speed, more widely, and with more depth than before with the advancement in 
computational capabilities. Smart f actory or Industry 4.0 is termed as the new age of industry 
because of the advancement in AI technologies. [12] within the intelligent manufacturing system, AI 
is applied into this field. It does not make sense of AI being used beyond intelligent manufactu ring 
system. Intelligent manufacturing system most of the time is characterized through learning, 
cognition, analysis, interconnection, control, decision making, autonomous intelligent sensing and 
the implementation of human, environment, material, machine  and data about the whole system. The 
system contains a lot of domains such as security management, cloud computing, resource layers, as 
well as a well -established service platform. [13] In terms of the manufacturing industry, innovation 
along with adaptat ion are two aspects which play a very important role. This kind of evolution using 
the modern technologies will lead to sustainable manufacturing of goods. In order to promote 
sustainability, intelligent production execution technology of global views is r equired for smart 
production. Because of intensive research methods in the domain of artificial Intelligence, a large 
number of AI consisting methods, for example machine learning, to achieve sustainable 
manufacturing in the industry these methods have alr eady been adopted.The process of innovation 
and adaptation with the help of AI has more efficient.  
 
AI in Security and Surveillance  
In the recent years the senior leaders have already expressed that the cyber domain is a field which 
contains a prominent potential usage of AI. On October 2016, Michael Rogers the director of 
National Security Agency (NSA) stated that their agency sees artificial intelligence as ―foundational 
to the future of cybersecurity‖. Roger made his remark two months after the Cyber G rand Challenge 
which was hosted by the DARPA, which is a head -to-head competition between machines of the 
cyber domain. In the event each system was able to discover and exploit each other cyber 
vulnerabilities while overcoming its own vulnerabilities and protecting its own system from external 
cyberattacks automatically. The DoD was impressed from the tournament and launched a new 
program named Project Voltron, in order to develop and execute cybersecurity systems which can 
scan and fix any vulnerabilities  from the U.S. military system. The major challenges of the counter -
illicit -financing‘s can be solved with the help of AI since it is more efficient than human 
intelligence. In the past the systems only used human intelligence. This led to many threats and  
crimes go unsolved or undiscovered. [15] Human intelligence is incapable of processing huge 
amount of data while on the other hand AI is capable of doing it in a more efficient manner. AI has a 
huge scope for optimising the fight against crimes and uphold the national security. Human 
intelligence is biased and favours emotions over facts. In a situation where a fast and steady decision 
is to be made due to the accumulation of unimaginable information, making the use of AI would 
solve the problem.There are a  lot of time -consuming processes such as drafting of verified decisions, 
multivariate events, rapid processing of large data, forensic science, counterintelligence, and 
creation of plans to counter the problem. AI‘s use can significantly increase the time efficiency 
required for these processes and can lead to detecting and preventing crimes in a faster manner. [16] 
With the introduction of Artificial intelligence, cybersecurity is of the field which will be benefited 
largely. In the events where convention al security will be insufficient, techniques of artificial 
intelligence can improvise the total security system‘s performance and efficiency by protecting the 
system from a large number of autonomous cyber threats.  
 ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
12 AI in Education  
[17] The domain of educa tion is largely concerned of the development of Artificial Intelligence 
techniques to facilitate the study based human teaching and systems of engineering. Questions 
which existed for a long term are addressed by this field such as, how will the system fac ilitate the 
learning process and measure the progress of learning. Within the discipline of engineering, 
‗intelligent tutoring system (ITS)‘ is a term which is frequently used. AI activities like dialog 
management, explanation, control, planning, knowledge  representation and acquisition, and 
cognitive modelling is supported by the computational methods. Alternate theories related to 
learning are also explored and evaluated using computational models. Advanced teaching systems 
with vast knowledge about the f ield, advanced ability to note the behavioural pattern of students, 
increase in the reason ability regarding the selection of topic and the generation of all kinds of 
responses are the factors which motivates the research of the domain of artificial intell igence in 
education. [18] Over more than 20 years computer are largely used in the domain of education. 
Computer -based training (CBT)  along with computer aided instruction (CAI) were one of the first 
such systems which were developed as a computer teaching instrument. In these systems, the 
instructions were not recommended according to individualized needs. Both CBT and CAI are 
effective in computational learning but it doesn‘t provide individual attention to students. This led to 
the establishment of Intell igent tutoring system (ITSs). ITSs provides an extra edge by responding to 
the idiosyncratic needs of the students. This provides higher versatility by upgrading the interaction 
session with students. [19] Artificial intelligence (AI) is perceived as a sol ution to the current 
existing problems in the field of education. Even though some of the sociologists gives deterministic 
arguments about this, AI solutionists are gaining an over hand on the issue. Through the methods of 
knowledge graph, bourdieusean the ory and novel technique of sociology, educational stakeholders 
and technologists are valorising artificial intelligence. Considering all these, an argument can be 
made that the mobilization of AI is done in the educational domain in a problematic manner an d we 
can advocate for another ordered sociological system and improve the domain so that it can account 
for the society‘s better improved structure.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[20] Organizations which rely on a person or a group of people, AI provides an edge by co ntinuing 
the circulation of knowledge even if a person retires or the organization is no longer available. To 
reelevate the application and to extend its life period, AI can be utilised to the development of the 
learning capabilities. ―Reinforcement learni ng‖ is a tool that enables AI learning from the success 
and failures in real life and the increased use of this tool has increased its reliability too. The 
significant amount of time taken by the staff can be minimised in an agency in process which 
include s decision making with the help of AI applications. [21] The fact that AI makes its decision 
based on facts and not on emotion is a major advantage it provides. No matter what we do, it is a 
fact that decisions made by humans ends up effecting in a negativ e manner because of our emotions. 
Artificial intelligence is a step above in terms of efficiency of the work done. AI does not need the 
requirement of sleep to easy themselves, on the other hand human intelligence has a certain limit to 
continuously it can  work. The process of making a machine learn a certain task with the help of AI 
is pretty easy, we just have to copy the training data into it. [22] AI can be relied on to the work 
chich may be too complex and stressful for human mind and body. Most likely  the tasks done by AI 
can be done pretty much faster than what could have been done with the help of human intelligence. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
13 AI can be used to research on areas which are too difficult for human body to reach, such as the 
outer space. The chance of getting an error or defect is less in can of AI. The functions which can be 
made is infinite and it is not bounded by anything. [23] With the deployment of edge nodes in 5G 
network systems, the process of edge computing has gained the advantage by the reduction of wor k 
load and backhaul pressure, though edge -based devices still face the problem of real time 
processing. The emergence of edge cognitive computing system has led to being recognised as a 
new paradigm.  With the more applications of more intelligent cognitive  services, the process of 
creating and predicting the new data can speed up for the intelligent machines, thereby interpreting 
the available information in the cyberspace. [24] For the seismic risk assessment, the realistic 
prediction of earthquakes is very  critical for the prevention of major damage by providing safe 
design for the important structures. It is a really challenging task to correctly identify the response of 
the earthquake due the complex nature of the seismic events. AI has been used as a pow erful tool as 
it provides a statistical advantage over the issue. This task involves the processing of massive 
collected data with the help of several noise enhanced processes. AI helps in identifying data which 
may be unknown to the human intelligence in order to correctly pinpoint the accurate data for the 
seismic activity. [25] In these times the greatest example of advantage of AI is smartphones. With 
the help of many different AI assistants in smartphones these days the workload on humans has 
decreased . AI helps in the reduction of risk for human life, in the scenarios of an earthquake or a fire 
brokage, modern machinery with the help of AI can react to the situation in a way that is risky for 
humans with ease. The everyday life of humans has become mor e luxurious with AI. According to a 
research it has been found that AI helps in the prevention of depression among people by providing 
them with some sort of entertainment.  
 
Challenges or Dis -advantages of AI  
[26] In the article by Van Zuylen, one of the major criticisms towards AI is regarding the black 
boxes which only merely attempt to seek a relationship between the input and the output, and they 
are solely based on training data manual. AI -based searching methods have another limitation which 
focuses on genetic algorithms rather than colony optimisation, is that it never guarantees to reach for 
a ―Optimal solution‖. Also, it is often difficult to gain the true insight and nature of the problem 
which it faces, and it is possible during for example while  using mathematical programming 
techniques. Also, AI is unable to correctly respond to a sensitive analytical task. [27] It is really not 
an easy task to develop machines which are favourable to our requirement as it is a bit expensive. It 
may sometimes req uire a ton of money to just repair or remodel. Also, it is a tedious task to repair 
robotic machinery. Robotics moulded with AI causes a large amount of unemployment and leads to 
the downfall of national economy. It is a matter of fear of people as they mi ght lose their jobs in the 
coming times. AI also leads to an unhealthy lifestyle for the society. [28] AI in the field of medicine 
is quickly grasping its grip. In December of 2016, a report made by Gulshan et al on the validation 
and development of an alg orithm for the detection in retinal fundus of diabetic retinopathy was 
circulated. After that an editorial was published by Wong and Bressler, which pointed out the limits 
of the above -mentioned report, it required further more validation and surety of saf ety. And it was 
also difficult to make people believe on a black box. [29]The adoption of AI is assessed in many 
different contradictory ways in the public sector. There is only a little amount of data to substantiate 
the benefits while there are a lot of reports on the demerits of AI in this sector. In China, many 
different stakeholders of different sectors have come together to claim certain empirical based ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
14 challenges in the public sector by providing an idea of 4 sets of guidelines which the government 
have to monitor for the adoption of AI into the public sector. [30] In order to improve the quality of 
the processing industry smart manufacturing is an essential necessity. In the sector of smart 
manufacturing, it is a common practise to adapt to different new kinds of technological reforms, due 
to large amount of usage for dangerous chemicals which leads to the implications of strict safety 
precautionary laws. The emergence of AI has results in the more problems in this sector as it causes 
certain errors in  the assessment of different hazardous tasks in the industry.[31] A simple error in a 
code can led to a big problem in its creation. In a complex code consisting of many functions and 
algorithms, a single text error can stop the entire coding process. Also , the detection of these small 
errors in the code is a tedious task which requires a lot of time. In the modern times where humans 
are busy in their own work, AI requires a lot of attention for its creation. AI is incapable of self -
processing, an input is required to begin the process, AI is not able to select the most appropriate 
input from a set of inputs. The creation of AI with the help of another AI is also a complex task. It 
most of the times leads to malfunctioning of the process.  
 
Conclusion  
According to the conducted research, AI can be considered to be an essential tool for the 
advancement of the human society. In the past AI has helped human kind in tackling many difficult 
tasks which deemed to be impossible with only the use of human intel ligence. AI aided a helping 
hand by decreasing the time taken for advancement. Human intelligence working along side with 
artificial intelligence can be seen as the foundation of the modern society. AI helps in pointing out 
the defects or problems in a dom ain which leads to the creation of many other AI software. In the 
field of medicine AI has helped in the detection of cause for diseases also it has helped in the 
efficient production on medicines and medical machinery. AI has helped in visual education fo r 
people. With the introduction of AI in the industry, the rate of production and manufacturing 
department has skyrocketed. The fusion of AI in the security and surveillance has provided better 
efficiency. With the further advancement of AI software in the  future, it can be said that the future of 
the human kind will advance in higher manner.  
 
Reference s 
Alugubelli, Raghunandan. "Exploratory Study of Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare."  International 
Journal of Innovations in Engineering Research and Tec hnology  3.1 (2016): 1 -10.  
Beck, Joseph, Mia Stern, and Erik Haugsjaa. "Applications of AI in Education."  XRDS: Crossroads, 
The ACM Magazine for Students  3.1 (1996): 11 -15. 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Art ificial 
Intellegence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230.  
Buchanan, Bruce G. "A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence."  Ai Magazine  26.4 (2005):  53-
53.  
Charniak, E. (1985).  Introduction to artificial intelligence . Pearson Education India.  
Chien, Chen -Fu, et al. "Artificial intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, 
applications, and case studies." (2020): 2730 -2731.  
Chowdhury, M., &Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues, 6(3), 360 -375. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
15 Chowdhury, M., &Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial intelligence. 
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation  issues, 6(3), 360 -375. 
Cioffi, Raffaele, et al. "Artificial intelligence and machine learning applications in smart production: 
Progress, trends, and directions."  Sustainability  12.2 (2020): 492.  
Davenport, Thomas, and Ravi Kalakota. "The potential for ar tificial intelligence in 
healthcare."  Future healthcare journal  6.2 (2019): 94.  
Davies, Huw C., Rebecca Eynon, and Cory Salveson. "The mobilisation of AI in education: A 
Bourdieusean field analysis."  Sociology  55.3 (2021): 539 -560. 
Ghimire, Awishkar, et al . "Accelerating business growth with big data and artificial 
intelligence."  2020 Fourth International Conference on I -SMAC (IoT in Social, Mobile, 
Analytics and Cloud)(I -SMAC) . IEEE, 2020.  
Horowitz, Michael C., et al.  Artificial intelligence and international security . Center for a New 
American Security., 2018.  
Jatobá, Mariana, et al. "Evolution of artificial intelligence research in human resources."  Procedia 
Computer Science  164 (2019): 137 -142. 
Ji, Hongjing, Osama Alfarraj, and Amr Tolba. "Arti ficial intelligence -empowered edge of vehicles: 
architecture, enabling technologies, and applications."  IEEE Access  8 (2020): 61020 -61034.  
Jiao, Pengcheng, and Amir H. Alavi. "Artificial intelligence in seismology: advent, performance and 
future trends."  Geoscience Frontiers  11.3 (2020): 739 -744. 
Li, Bo -hu, et al. "Applications of artificial intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a 
review."  Frontiers of Information Technology & Electronic Engineering  18.1 (2017): 86 -96. 
Mao, Shuai, et al. "Opportunities  and challenges of artificial intelligence for green manufacturing in 
the process industry."  Engineering  5.6 (2019): 995 -1002.  
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?  
McCarthy, John. "What is artificial intelligence?." (2007).  
Mogali, Shiv aranjini. "Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries."  Conference: 
Bilingual International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and 
Tomorrow, At Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Centre, Ministry of 
Defence Delhi . 2014.  
Osipov, S. S., and N. V. Ulimova. " advantages and disadvantages of ai."  science and world  (2013): 77.  
Radulov, Nikolay. "Artificial intelligence and security. Security 4.0."  Security & Future  3.1 (2019): 
3-5.  
Sipov, S. S., and N. V. Ulimova. "advantages and disadvantages of ai."  science and world  (2013): 
77. 
Spector, Lee. "Evolution of artificial intelligence."  Artificial Intelligence  170.18 (2006): 1251 -1253.  
Stead, William W. "Clinical implications and challenges of artificial intelligence and deep 
learning."  Jama  320.11 (2018): 1107 -1108.  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies. Science 
[ETEBMS -2016], 5(6).  
Sun, Tara Qian, and Rony Medaglia. "Mapping the challenges of Artificial Intelligence i n the public 
sector: Evidence from public healthcare."  Government Information Quarterly  36.2 (2019): 
368-383.  
Wirkuttis, Nadine, and Hadas Klein. "Artificial intelligence in cybersecurity."  Cyber, Intelligence, 
and Security  1.1 (2017): 103 -119. 
Woolf, Bev erly. AI in Education . University of Massachusetts at Amherst, Department of Computer 
and Information Science, 1991.  
Yu, Kun -Hsing, Andrew L. Beam, and Isaac S. Kohane. "Artificial intelligence in 
healthcare."  Nature biomedical engineering  2.10 (2018): 719 -731. ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
16 A PATH TO IMMORTALITY THROUGH CRYONICS  
 
SOUMYATA BINANI  
 
 AISHWARYA BALAJEE  
 
NAVYA TATIPARTHI  
Email ID:  soumyata.binani2018@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Introduction  
In ancient times birth and death were solely controlled by nature. But the advancement in the 
scientific and medical field currently has made it possible to manipulate birth and death by 
extending life spans. Now science is evolving in such a way that it cou ld probably change the idea 
of death. Scientists have come up with an enthralling theory of cryonics in which death can be 
entirely controlled by humans. ―Cryo‖ is a Greek word referring to ―icy cold‖ or ―frost‖. Cryonics is 
the process by which a human, a nimal, or any living organism is preserved with the purpose of 
future revival. The theory of cryonics came into the modern world when the physics professor 
Robert Ettinger put forward the idea of immortality in his book, ―The Prospect of Immortality‖, 
whic h involved preservation by freezing.  
 Cryopreservation is achieved by freezing the species at extremely  low temperatures (as low as -
196o C) by encasing them in liquid nitrogen. The low temperature slows down or temporarily halts 
the chemical reactions in  the species which helps in the preservation  of tissues in the body. Ice 
formation, which could be a disadvantage of this process can also be prevented by using vitrification 
mixtures. Cryonicists hope that in the near future, the biomedical advancements w ill reach a point 
where it can cure the species of the conditions that pose a threat to its survival and resuscitate it. 
Cryonics at first glance might seem like something humanly  impossible, but it is completely feasible 
under biomedical confinements of d eath. Implementation of this technique has begun and research  
centres like NASA are currently working on it. Although  it requires an extensive amount of research 
and monetary funds for development, it opens up a wide range of career opportunities for all 
aspiring minds of the world.  
 
Literary Survey  
The concept of cryonics originated from this remarkable book written by Dr Robert C.W. Ettinger, 
―Prospect of Immortality‖. Ettinger believed that everyone is going to die and some would die 
before reaching old ages due to some menacing disease and so to achieve rejuvenation, he came up 
with the idea of one being suspended in a transient state from which he could be revived again. 
Technically, the patient is not sleeping, only his metabolic reactions have stopped . When 
rejuvenated, he will have no idea about the passage of time. The idea of cryonics has itself brought 
optimism for many people including the researchers and it is expected that the average life 
expectancy is going to increase by a huge number by the starting of the 22nd century.  
 Medical science has advanced to an extent where today, we can afford to preserve the body of 
the dead by rapid cooling of temperature that surrounds him, and reanimate or revive it in the future 
when the cure for the particular disease has been discovered. This is called cryonics. The process 
can be started only after the person has been declared ―legally dead‖. Cryoprotectants like glycerol Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
17 can control the formation of ice in the brain. The main aim of the whole exper iment is that later in 
the future, these ―subjects‖ can turn into epitomes of ―Reversible Death‖. Their normal body 
temperature can be restored; damage caused by cryoprotectants can be cured. Similar experiments 
have been carri ed out  on rabbits and have be en successful . 
 Glycerol was the first chemical used for the purpose of cryopreservation. Robert Ettinger in his 
the book sugge sted that g lycero l can be used as a cryopreservant . This observation was made when 
glycerol showed positive  results, in  the prese rvation of sperms and tissues. Ettinger asked Dr Dante 
Brunol to produce a protocol  for cryop, reservation . Brunol  explains that a body after legal death 
should not undergo immediate freezing. Reason for this statement given by Brunol  is that water after 
immediate pressurised freezing forms glass and cannot rearrange into crystals. For better 
cryopreservation  purposes, Brunol  suggests that a cryonic suspendee after legal death should be 
augmented with an artificial airway and high fraction of inspired oxyge n. Another suggestion made 
by Brunol  in the protocol is that the cryonics  patient must be immersed in a tub filled with ice and 
10% DMSO in water when mechanical CPR is being carried out.  
 Cryonics is more of a theoretical crisis than a practical one. The  first practical step to cryonics 
was suggested by Dr Thomas K Donaldson. Donaldson, a cryonicist, was a brain tumour patient. He 
believed that he could have a life without a tumour  in the future and for this, he needed to kill 
himself. If he waited for lo nger, more of his brain tissues would have gotten damaged due to the 
continuous  growth of a tumour . Donaldson‘s arrangements for his cryonic suspension started in 
1975  but had to stop as otherwise,  his tumour would have grown to a large extent that it woul d 
prevent circulation in the brain. Eventually,  he died in 2006 without undergoing the procedure. 
Later, James Bedford, an American professor, became the very first person whose body was 
cryopreserved after legal death. A person can have chances to survive  cryogenically, only if their 
brain structure remains unaltered. Recent day technology seems to be able to do this, which was not 
considered possible in the past. Nanotechnology is a dream come true for cryonicists as it is 
considered to be a key for reviv al. It not only alters the hazardous effects caused by freezing but also 
helps in curing the disease that lead to the death of the person.  
 Since cryonics is done in low temperatures, damages are caused to the body due to ice 
formation. Such damages can b e prevented by a process called vitrification, which involves the 
usage of cryoprotectants and agents to prevent the formation of ice. Cryoprotectants must not only 
be powerful  but also non -viscous and completely non -toxic. Any cryoprotectant used in vitri fication 
has the toxicity  of varying levels which over a period of time can damage the body tissues, neurons, 
blood vessels, etc. DMSO, glycerol, ethylene glycol, propylene glycol and some other polyols were 
found to be effective cryoprotectants. But these  agents contain toxic reagents which cause  harmful 
side effects such as kidney failure, cardiopulmonary failure, etc. Cryoprotectant toxicity, according 
to the ongoing research work, could be due to denaturation of the proteins in the body. 
Understanding t he cryoprotectants at a molecular level is very important to find out the reason for its 
toxicity. Mending it would be a big step in the research field of cryogeny. Their toxicity can be 
reduced at low temperatures and can even become negligible if the tem perature is low enough, but 
unfortunately, the viscosity of the agent is extremely low at these temperatures and thus cannot 
diffuse into tissues which render it ineffective.  
 Cryoprotectants are chemicals which prevent cells, tissues or organs from the da mages caused 
by freezing. Its main purpose is to make a dehydrating atmosphere for the preservation  of the body. 
The vital problem associated with this process is cryoinjuries and these commonly occur during ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
18 post-thawing and pre -freezing. Generally, cryopr eservation is done in isobaric conditions. Despite 
that, it has some disadvantages. To overcome these problems, isochoric conditions are preferred. 
Carrier solution (maintains stability within cells) and ice blockers (prevents ice formation) are two 
major components used in vitrification. Recently, methods have been developed for freezing organs 
which proves to be better than vitrification.  
 Benjamin P Best explains in detail the biological aspects of cryopreservation. Ischemia is one of 
the problems faced  in cryopreservation. It is the deterioration of blood vessels and the tissues of the 
body due to lack of the necessary blood flow. Such damage can cause o edema  in blood vessels and 
various other effects which are detrimental to the cryonics  patient. If re perfusion is done within a 
few minutes of the cardiac arrest of the patient, his body tissues and blood vessels can recover due to 
the re -establishment of gases and nutrient exchange. But a delayed reperfusion can cause more harm 
to the body tissues and bl ood vessels than what would have been caused if there was no restoration 
at all. A lot of the damage causing oxidants are produced during the ischemic period, and thus this 
period should be reduced to a minimum. Neurons do not die immediately after the beg inning of 
ischemia  but do die out during reperfusion prior to a while of ischemia. Introduction of calcium into 
neurons can help prevent neuron death. Hypothermia is used to reduce the damage of ischemia to a 
very large extent, but also has various side ef fects like cold shock, chilling injury, etc.  
 Daniel R Spector highlights the factors that hinder the possibility of future revival of a cryonics 
patient. He mentions that the freezing techniques of the present are not perfect. They do cause 
deterioration of the body of the dead patient. He also emphasises on the fact that such a revival is 
based on the assumption that future biomedical advancements can not only cure the cause of death 
of the individual  but can also amend the damage caused to the individual  due to freezing. Death is 
defined legally by the biological standard used by doctors. It is considered to be something natural 
and ineluctable, but cryonics may change the definition of death to being a disease which can be 
cured. Now the word ‗death‘ sho uld be re -interpreted legally in such a way that it is no longer 
considered absolute and also those who are frozen are put in a category different from those who are 
dead. If in a very far future, cryonic  patients are revived, it can be said that they  no longer possess 
their former identity and this would create a lot of legal complications as they would  have a new 
legal record and would  not be penalized for anything they have done in their ‗past life‘ which would 
be unfair.   
 To evaluate patient‘s priority either before suspension or after suspension, a cryonicist should 
definitely consider biomedical ethics which were established by Childress and Beauchamp. The 
biomedical ethics for cryonics include  respect for autonomy, benef icence, justice and non - 
maleficence. Considering all these principles, cryonicists need to face the sturdy  and actual 
responsibility to ensure  the cryopreservation of patient. Ethics of cryonics includes justice, meaning 
everyone has the right to undergo cryopreservation but the enormous amount of money for the 
process makes it possible only for the big shots. This money can be utilised in many more 
resourceful ways like saving the lives  of those living in the present. Nonetheless, a question about 
who has  the right to live arises. Some may choose the person who can benefit the future better. 
Others may choose the wealthiest and most popular persons. The people resuscitated in the future 
would face problems with their identity, adjusting in a society with d ifferent social norms and 
customs. This will affect them physically and psychologically.  
 Nature is something beyond human understanding. But the intellectual human race always 
strives to prove impossible deeds of nature into possible. Such desires of hum ankind lead to major Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
19 accomplishments in the world of science. People are not interested in theoretical science. They are 
interested in desires that motivate research. The man  started his war against time so that he can 
destroy all the boundaries created by  nature. This lead to the proposal of cryonics. Cryonic freezing 
is considered to be an alternative to death. People consider cryonics as a great accomplishment 
because of the hope that they would be able to see a better world sometime in the future . 
  
Findings  
Cryonics is a developing idea that may or may not work out as expected in the future. The idea 
emerged from the concept of hibernation and diapauses of the living organisms. It started with the 
preservation of organs for transplantation and now it ha s gone to an extent of preserving humans for 
future revival. Cryopreservation is a process which uses chemicals like glycerol to preserve the 
body, but these do have their own disadvantages. The process can ensure the prevention  of ice 
formation and contin uation of the body circulation  but have a lot of side effects such as injuries due 
to cryoprotectant toxicity. Current medical progress does not have a way to reverse the state of the 
cryopreserved body and thus we are completely dependent on the possibili ties of the future. Under 
the current rate of progress in the field of nanotechnology, it is predicted that in future, it would be 
able to cure the damages caused by the disease and also find the antidote for the disease which is 
considered incurable till date. The procedure is also very expensive and cannot be accessed by those 
who are underprivileged . It opens up a new field of study with a lot of career opportunities in the 
research field for all the young and enthusiastic minds.  
 
Recommendations & Conclusion  
Dying is something no one would wish for, the solution for this could be cryonics. The success of 
cryonics would bring about a great revolution in the field of medical science. It has many 
applications such as space research, the solution  to nat ural disasters. But every coin has a flip side 
and so does cryonics. Cryonics slows down the cell metabolism but this does not necessarily mean 
that the ageing of the cell is slowed down or stopped.  
 This can mean that the suspendee might continue to age e ven while being cryonically preserved. 
Also, in this process,  we are defying a natural process called ―Death‖ which marks the end of one‘s 
life. This way, if the procedure turns out to be successful, there would be a hike in the world‘s 
population which wo uld be economically and environmentally hazardous.  
 The procedure of cryonics just gives a person hope and not an assurance  of life extension. Thus, 
if you want to undergo this procedure, it will definitely be useful in the field of research but may or 
may not be fruitful for you.  
 
Reference s 
Best, B. (2008). Cryoprotectant toxicity.  
Best, B. P. (2012). Vascular and neuronal ischemic damage in cryonics patients.  Rejuvenation 
research , 15(2), 165 -169. 
Bhattacharya, M. S. (2016). A review on cryoprotectant and its modern implication in 
cryonics.  Asian Journal of Pharmaceutics (AJP): Free full-text articles from Asian J 
Pharm , 10(3). 
Cron, R. (2014). 'Is Cryonics an Ethical Means of Life Extension?  
Darwin, M. (2007). History of DMSO and glycerol in cryonics.  Cryonics 3rd Quarter . ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
20 Ettinger, R. C., & Rostand, J. (1965).  The prospect of immortality . Sidgwick and Jackson.  
Hughes, J. (2001). The future of death: cryonics and the telos of liberal individualism.  
Karthikeyan J., Christopher Rajasekaran W., Unyapho P. (2019) Analysis of Diverse Open 
Source Digital Tools and Learning Management System Users in Academics. In: 
Satapathy S., Bhateja V., Somanah R., Yang XS., Senkerik R. (eds) Information 
Systems Design and Intelligent Applications. Advances in Intelligent S ystems and 
Computing, vol 862. Springer, Singapore  
LaBouff, J. P. (1992). He Wants To Do What -Cryonics: Issues in Questionable Medicine and Self -
Determination.  Santa Clara Computer & High Tech. LJ , 8, 469.  
Spector, D. R. (1969). Legal Implications of Cryonics.  Clev. -Marshall L. Rev. , 18, 341.  
Yorke, C., & Rowe, L. (2006). Malchronia: Cryonics and bionics as primitive weapons in the war on 
time.  Journal of Evolution and Technology , 15, 74. 
 
 
 
 
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
90 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN EDUCATION AND  
MACHINE LEARNING  
 
ANKIT JAIN  
  
PRIYANSHUMOURYA  
 
BURHAN SALARIA  
Email ID: ankit.jain2018@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Abstract  
This paper reviews the research on artificial intelligence in education and machine learning and how AI can 
help in building a model which would create the best learning environment for students and would create a 
resonance between students and teachers. It addresses affective strategies that promote quality learning and 
how to provide best way of education to teachers.  
Keywords:  ITS ( Intelligent Tutoring Systems ), machine learning, holo  study, e -learning, personalization  
 
Introduction  
Nowadays, ―Artificial intelligence‖ has a great importance in every field like online shopping, 
education, and many other areas of everyday life. AI (Artificial Intelligence) is the study of man -
made computational systems, dev ices and intelligent agents. The main of AI in education is to create 
virtual environment for learning. AI is designed to include speech recognition, learning, problem 
solving and all of these are major challenges in education. Thus, AI systems have a lot of benefits 
like one is personalization i.e. it is quite easy to recognize the individual learning related 
requirements of a student. It is not possible by a teacher to provide meaningful feedback to each and 
every student, so AI will help the teachers in this way so that they can recognize the flaws and 
strengths of the students using machine learning. Machine Learning is a field that uses techniques 
the give computer the ability to ―learn‖ with data using studies like pattern recognition and 
computational  learning theory in artificial intelligence. Machine learning in education can be used to 
divide teachers and students in group according to the needs and availability of students. In 
ML(Machine Learning)  has major categorisation in classification in which  inputs are divided in to 
two or more classes and some others are regression and clustering act as the major applications of 
the machine learning. The scope of machine learning only keeps increasing. There are plenty of 
ways machine is learning in educatio n in getting better; some of them are so instrumental in 
education that we probably couldn‘t live without them. I characterize the past, present and the near 
future of AI in education research in terms of combination of different roles played by constituen ts 
of educational processes. Machine learning is a core part of AI. Learning without any kind of 
supervision requires ability to identify problems and patterns in stream of inputs provided. I think 
that there is no way that going online completely is going  to solve all all the problems now, however 
when combined with  school curriculums and programmes can be used as a powerful tool. Hence, 
human factor would always have importance and AI would not replace it every time.I can only hope 
that some readers will be willing to give counter arguments on my research and that a result could 
emerge from any ensuing debate.  
 
Literature Review  
[1]Technologies are slowly changing the practice of research and education. This paper discusses 
how work in AI (Artificial Intelligence) is contributing new ideas towards education and  learning. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
91 The main aim of this paper is to review the past and present trends in the application of AI in 
education and to find from the failures and successes of past applications to possible f uture 
applications. Discussion of this paper includes the two main applications of AI in education: 
intelligent tutoring system (ITS) and micro words. We also discuss other research to support general 
points but many outstanding systems and studies are men tioned only in passing or not at all. It will 
be also considering the implications of AI in education of the changes that will be coming over the 
next few years. The effects will be at least significant to the society as the renaissance, the industrial 
revolution, and the invention of the printing press put together.[2] Intelligent Tutoring Systems: To 
reduce human teacher efforts a computer system was built which aims to provide personalized and 
immediate instructions to students. We began by reviewing the  fundamentals of this behind these 
systems and illustrating them to tutors we have developed. ITS systems begins by comparing the 
student model and the content model i,e it basically begins by identifying what knowledge student 
already has through an asses sment and then updating student model‘s status as instruction 
occurs.ITS  has not grown upto its full potential.  ITS can also teach despite of lack of visibility of 
ITS in the real world. Researches  havce been made that ITS can replace over traditional classroom 
teaching and can provide many benefits of a human teacher to a very large scale of students. There 
are various applications of ITS which includes language processing, planning, multi agent systems, 
machine learning .Present computer instructions archetypes like e -learning provides an excellent 
platform for ITS .In the last several years applications of AI in education has diversified and the 
field is not certainly as unified as five years ago when ITS dominated AI research in education. 
Some recen t research attempts to improve one on one tutoring method of teaching associated with 
ITS, other researchers are investigating different methods of teaching and learning. [3]Artificial 
intelligence includes e -learning. A research has been done to develop a n artificial intelligence in 
education system (AIed) that is able to detect and then appropriately react to an effective state of a 
learner; one of the such research was cherer‘s effect framework. We chose to utilize cherer‘s effect 
framework as a way to i ntegrate the research findings.[4] AI also helps students to practice the 
different or situations or scenarios anywhere and anytime and with the help of their teachers it can 
provide a serious training bottleneck. It also helps student to get a three dimen sional, interactive and 
a simulated environment which increases their leaning power including their skills.AI in education is 
practice of building computational models of a school curriculum for a particular subject such as 
maths. A model of learners that would record how learners interacted with AI and Ed software and 
use that recording to make predictions about how that child is progressing.[5]The AI and Ed system 
through a piece of software and an interface, which could be a screen based interface or it could be 
something slightly different, would interact with the learner and take them down the most optimal 
path to improve their learning outcomes.[6]One type of such system is Holostudy. Holostudy is an 
application for the Microsoft halogens that anyone c an use to gain the cumulative knowledge of 
mankind. Holograms can simplify studying complicated subjects like study of atoms and their 
connections, complex working of human organs or explaining physical and chemical phenomena. 
Holostudy will make knowledge  easier to grasp and more enjoyable which will improve the quality 
and quantity of specialists making positive change in the world. [7]AI can also help teachers. AI can 
manage some of the tasks as well as it can communicate with students. With more interac tion the AI 
can understand the strength and weakness of every student and help them work efficiently by 
building a curriculum and schedule that is suitable for the student. It will be more convenient to take 
help from AI to reinforce a skill or master idea  before an assessment. In this way students will get ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
92 additional support from AI and will understands topics more deeply and will be able to apply it more 
effectively.  [8]As different students have different capabilities, AI will provide different solution for 
different students. This will help the students to tackle problems in a way the find easy. As AI can 
focus on the skill  sets on different students more effectively, it can provide the students with helpful 
feedbacks and can help them improve in the are as where they lack.  [9]As far as education is 
concerned, practical knowledge plays an important role in it. With the help of AI we can improve 
this practical knowledge. Before making a real working model, we can make an virtual model  3D of 
it by use of AI.  By this we will save a lot of labour and we can fix or change anything easily instead 
of starting it from the beginning. We can also monitor its working and see if it is providing the 
optimal results.  By this it will be easier for the students to understa nd the working of a machine or a 
model.  [10] Machine learning technology can help teachers to evaluate or assess tests objectively 
and provide feedback accordingly to the students. The applications of the machine learning included 
doing the assessment of t he student and providing the scores. Machine learning can potentially 
redefined not only how education is delivered but also improves the quality learning on the students 
part. Machine learning can help in delivering customised in class teaching by providi ng real time 
feedback based on individual student requirements and behaviour. It also plays important roles in 
assessments or evaluation by removing biased grading.  
 
Findings  
Machine learning will be able to explain the concepts as well as set th e goals f or individual students . 
It considers the individual student aptitude, learning speed, background and give students an 
appropriate feedback on how they should grow their practical  knowledge and improve his or her 
thinking skills.  It processes the data in re al time and provides feed to the teacher so that the teacher 
can recognize flagging student attention or poor response immediately and take corrective actions. A 
model of AI can be built which can potentially improve student participation and explain conce pts 
and set goals for students. Based on the feedback, professors can change or modify the methodology 
of teaching, curriculum and topics accordingly.  
 
Conclusions  
There has been a significant rise in the field of AI in education and machine learning. Henc e, it is 
difficult to neglect its role in future guided by the manner in which schools and universities will 
change their curriculum. The past and present use of learning management systems and intelligent 
tutoring systems has made prolific changes in the field of AI in education. Nowadays quality 
education is the most needed which somewhat cannot be fulfilled only by the teachers, so with the 
help of AI significant changes can be made in field of education thus the teaching practises followed 
in all the fi elds of education will be replaced in future by implementing the complex algorithms of 
AI designed by programmers . There is a urgent need for the universities and schools to rethink their 
functioning  and pedagogical models and their future relations with AI solutions and their owners. 
We consider that there is a prerequisite for research based on the ethical implications of the current 
control to support the developments in AI. Using machine learning methods such as regression and 
clustering, we can create  the best model of AI which would help in education.  
 
References  
Blanchard, E. G., Volfson, B., Hong, Y. J., & Lajoie, S. P. (2009, July). Affective artificial 
intelligence in education: From detection to adaptation. In  AIED  (Vol. 2009, pp. 81 -88). Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
93 Devedžić, V. (2004). Web intelligence and artificial intelligence in education.  Educational 
technology & society,  7(4), 29 -39. 
Freedman, R., Ali, S. S., &  McRoy, S. (2000). Links: what is an intelligent tutoring 
system?.  intelligence,  11(3), 15 -16. 
Jones, M. (1985). Applications of artificial intelligence within education.  Computers & mathematics 
with applications,  11(5), 517 -526. 
Larreamendy -Joerns, J., &  Leinhardt, G. (2006). Going the distance with online education.  Review 
of educational research,  76(4),  567-605. 
Looi, C. K., Mc  Calla, G., &  Bredeweg, B. (Eds.). (2005).  Artificial intelligence in education: 
supporting learning through intelligent and socially informed technology  (Vol. 125). IOS 
Press.  
Mc Calla, G. (2000). The fragmentation of culture, lea rning, teaching and technology: implications 
for the artificial intelligence in education research agenda in 2010.  International Journal of 
Artificial Intelligence in Education,  11(2), 177 -196. 
Timms, M. J. (2016). Letting artificial intelligence in educat ion out of the box: educational cobots 
and smart classrooms.  International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education,  26(2), 
701-712. 
Wenger, E. (2014).  Artificial intelligence and tutoring systems: computational and cognitive 
approaches to the commu nication of knowledge. Morgan Kaufmann.  
Yazdani, M., & Lawler, R. W. (1986). Artificial intelligence and education: An 
overview.  Instructional Science,  14(3-4), 197 -206. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
94 KNOWLEDGE ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE  
 
REDDI GOWTHAM  
B. Tech Computer Science  
Email ID: reddi.gowtham2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Introduction  
You may heard that how fast and rapidly the technology on Artificial Intelligence is growing and in 
what ways the Artificial Intelligence is influencing the peoples lives and how crucial role it is 
playing now -a-days in our lives. Artificial Intelligence is spread over many industries like Software 
companies, hospitals, hotels and many leading industries. It is very useful to the development of any 
country. In this we will discuss about wh at is Artificial Intelligence and how far it is going and what 
types of industries are involving and how the AI is spread and at what stage it was formed and 
established and how long it went. In a nutshell, AI has had a transformative year. In any other ye ar, 
Cambridge Analytica's attempt to sway national elections in the United States and the United 
Kingdom by exploiting social media data and algorithmic ad targeting would have been the most 
prominent news.  
 
What is Artificial  Intelligence ? 
[1]Artificial i ntelligence is the part of engineering which is used to build Intelligent machines 
mainly computer programs. It is nothing but using human brains and building a professional 
program which is so complicated using computer  simply. [2] It is arrived due to military, finance, 
manufacturing sectors are growing as they can‘t run with only human brains, but also requires the 
mixture of human brain along with computers. Now it is one of the leading technology in the world. 
The multidisciplinary character of  AI is  another reason for the difficulty in defining it. 
Anthropologists, biologists, computer scientists, philosophers, psychologists, and neuroscientists all 
contribute to AI, each with their own viewpoint and vocabulary.  
 
History of  AI? 
[3] Firstly,  AI isan imagination,  fiction.  After  development  in engineering  and electronics  AI has 
been eventually evolved. By combing both the electronics and AI they found that many 
developments can be established in the future and they tried to get knowledge on  it. [4] In 18 47 
George Boole described the formal language for logic reasoning.  John McCarthy first time gave a 
definition for Artificial intelligence in 1956. From  then the world has changed and eventually  stared  
Artificial  Intelligence  in lives.  According  to computer  scientist  Nils Nils son, the purpose of 
artificial intelligence is to "make computers intelligent" by automating or replicating behaviour that 
"enables an entity to act effectively and with foresight in its  environment."  
 
Growth of  AI? 
[5] Now a days AI is eventually growing too heights and heights. Without AI there would be many 
things stopped and the there may be economy fall. AI is the technology of future. It is started on  lya 
years ago. So there is a major development which helps the people and  count ry.[6] Due to revolution 
of AI the employment offers increased and there is a growth in employment.  It can replace labour by 
capital in production of goods and services which is very useful for the leading industries and  
industrialists.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
95 AI in Healthcare  Appliances ? 
[7] Due to AI the medical industries also increased a lot. Many sophisticated operations and 
treatmentsareevolvingduetoAIwithease.Itishelpfulinrecoveryoftreatmentlikecancer, neurology and  
cardiology. [8] AI is used to determine the disease more  accurately by x -rays,  MRI,  CT scans, and 
ultrasounds and helps the patient to reduce the recovery time from weeks to hours. This made life 
easier and safer than earlier and people started to believe in it and tried to implement more  practices. 
[9] Coming to dentists AI is used to build the 3D image of problem of the patient and helps to find 
the outcome. Cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) and intraoral/facial scans are some of the 
methods to find AI based 3Dimages.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and  Production?  
[10]In recent times. AI in manufacturing industry is growing rapidly. It helps in charge ofmodels, 
means and ecosystems with information communications, manufacturing, and related product 
technology. [11] After arrival of AI the production in manufacturing i ndustries increased compared 
to before. The goods are also not satisfied customers before the arrival of AI. Because with the help 
ofpeople there may be many mistakes and there may be faults in the goods. But the computers never 
make mistakes. It eventuall y increased the quality and  productivity. [12] Bills of Materials(BOMs) 
and routings which is developed by artificial intelligence inventory items that show all sub -
assemblies and raw materials. The present advancement in intelligent manufacturing is also covered 
from the perspectives of intelligent manufacturing application technology, industry, and application 
demonstration. Finally, recommendations for using AI in China's intelligent manufacturing aremade.  
 
AI in Security and  Surveillance?  
[13] AI as an integrated system that incorporates information acquisition objectives, logical 
reasoning principles, and self -correction capacities. The software is completely secured by firewalls 
by which the data can‘t be stolen by  scammers. [14] Security  plays a key -role in many organisations 
in keeping their data safe from many threats. AI is playing a key -role in keeping the data safe by 
providing many security issues. In terms  of ambient data and connection, code -driven systems now 
reach more than half  of the world's population, presenting previously unimagined potential as well 
as unexpected risks. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is evolving at a rapid pace, particularly in industrial 
construction. The unusual use of AI in cyber -attacks appears to be rath er frightening. [15] The 
detecting of many issues in computers and using off cameras and videos are all based on AI. They 
detect the information if anything goes wrong other than the operator stores in it and alerts the 
public. This AI helps the people to be safe and make the polices easy to track the thieves or any 
misleading  issues.  
 
AI in  Education?  
[16] Education through computers are being used since 20 years. Computer -based training(CBT) 
and Computer Aided Instruction(CAI) are some of the practices us ed to learn through computers.  
This is the interesting thing where the major change occurs through AI.  There is more change in 
education in terms of effective teaching skills using  AI to plot a graph or a 3D diagram which helps 
to understand the concepts e asily for the  students. [17] There are also some consequences of AI in 
education like the bond between teacher and student is breaking with this which is very bad. Teacher 
plays an important role in guiding students, So there is a misguide with AI ineducat ion. [18] In ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
96 education AI plays a major role in mathematics and problem solving. They help toanalyse the 
problem and solve it easily in no time. Artificial intelligence (AI) is becoming more and more 
prevalent in our daily lives. For example, AI researcher s are presently leveraging new 
methodologies in machine learning, computer modelling, and probability statistics to improve 
financial decision -making, as well as leveraging decision theory and neuroscience to drive the 
creation of more effective medical  diagnostics.  
 
Advantages of  AI? 
[19] It is used to solve the problems easily which reduces most of the time. It increases the 
effectiveness of the work we are doing. AI provides the advantages of reliability, permanency. 
Artificial intelligence is well-exemplified by smart  phones. With apps like Siri, which acts as a 
personal assistant, maps and GPS, which show the user the shortest routes to their destination, and 
apps that forecast the user's activities and provider  ecommendations [20] A new produ ct is 
developing in the form of projects now a days. Projects need a team work  and have to make many 
complex tasks to build it. AI helps to make it easy and make those complex things to simple and also 
reduces the people inwork. [21] AI helps the machine t o think and understand a situation and work 
and helps it to analyse like a human being. The utmost precision and nearly no probability of error 
are achieved when AI isused. [22] Now a days neural networks are used by mathematicians and 
scientists to solve a complex equation  or a problem  in seconds  which  is controlled  by AI. Artificial  
Intelligence -enabledrobots could be employed to investigate the depths of the earth and the world's 
oceans in order to obtain the fuel and resources that humans  require. [23] AI is also used along with 
electrical automation control now a days more and more. With this type of combining technologies 
there is more chance to develop easily. When performing repetitive and time -consuming jobs, 
artificial intelligence ca n be useful.  
 
Challenges or disadvantages of  AI? 
[24] Mainly in education there are disadvantages of using AI. It can‘t fulfil the role of a teacher in 
classrooms and causes many dangers to the children in a class. The cost of maintenance and repair is 
one of artificial intelligence's major drawbacks. To satisfy changing requirements, the software must 
be updated on a regular basis. The expense of repair in the case of a failure can be very  costly.  
 [25] We draw many graphs and to measure and compare many t hings in form of graph. These 
graphs tells the data in a simple and easiest way and easy to analyse it which are drawn by AI.  But 
these graphs can be changed by a other person or some unknown mainly in the process of voting 
there is a major chance to misle ad the votes represented in graphs which are done by AI. So these 
things may cause major scams. So AI has the disadvantages of misleading the data  easily.  [26] Bugs 
are a major drawback. When giving artificial intelligence a large number of  complex tasks, keep in 
mind that any computer can fail. A little arithmetic error can lead to a slew of subsequent issues.  
This can potentially result in the loss of critical data that is processed by a machine. [27] Social 
media mainly the news which is published in tha t are all controlled by AI. Thesenews are 
transferring very negatively in social media and many fake news is transferring through social media 
which may lead to the people threatening to the news. It will be catastrophic if military robots fall 
into the wr ong hands. The machine does not pause to consider its actions before going in  to action. 
[28] Now a days all the banking is through online which is run by AI. There is more scope to  take 
the money and mislead the transactions and there is more chance to tu rn a person into culprit by 
doing scams in these online transactions which made them easy bu Artificial  Intelligence  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
97 Conclusion  
So, according to the above explanation we can understand that the life without AI wouldn‘t be this. 
AI has played major role in  many important and use industries. Hospitals became easy to recover 
many dangerous diseases which can‘t be treated those days. Many diagnosed ways have been 
established in hospital sectors. We are using computers and huge machines to make our work more 
simple and easier and the productivity is also high. This is all because of the development of 
Artificial Intelligence only. AI systems were rapidly deployed into more social spheres this year, 
putting an increasing number of individuals at danger. While AI techniques still have a lot of 
potential, rushing to implement systems without proper assessment, accountability, and monitoring 
can be dangerous. We need to regulate AI systems on a sector -by-sector basis, with a focus on facial 
and affect recognition, an d to base those policies on thorough research.  
 
Reference s  
Aghion, P., Antonin, C., &Bunel, S. (2019). Artificial intelligence, growth andemployment: The role 
of policy. Economie et Statistique, 510(1),149 -164. 
Allen, R. J. (2001). Artificial intelligence and the evidentiary process: The challengesof formalism 
and computation. Artificial Intelligence and Law, 9(2),99 -114. 
Alzaidi,A.A.(2018).  Impactofartificialintelligenceonperformanceofbankingindustryin Middle Ea st. 
International Journal of Computer Science and Network Security, 18(10),140 -148. 
Beck, J., Stern, M., &  Haugsjaa, E. (1996). Applications of AI in Education. XRDS: Crossroads, The 
ACM Magazine for Students , 3(1),11 -15. 
Benko, A., &Lányi, C. S. (2009). Hi story of artificial intelligence. In Encyclopediaof Information 
Science and Technology, Second Edition (pp. 1759 -1762). IGI Global.  
 Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A(very) brief history of artificial intelligence. Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53. 
Chowdhury,M.,  & Sadek, A.W.(2012).  Advantagesandlimitationsofartificialintelligence. Artificial 
intelligence applications to critical transportation issues, 6(3),360 -375. 
Cihon, P., Maas, M. M., & Kemp, L. (2020, February). Should artificial intelligence governance be 
centralised? Design lessons from history.  
Feldstein, S. (2019). The global expansion of AI surveillance (Vol. 17). Washington, DC: Carnegie 
Endowment for InternationalPeace.  
Feng, H. (2018, September). The application of artificial intelligence in electrica l automation 
control. In Journal of Physics: Conference Series (Vol. 1087, No. 6, p. 062008). 
IOPPublishing.  
Furman, J., & Seamans, R. (2019). AI and the Economy. Innovation policy and the economy , 19(1), 
161-191. 
 Garrido, A. (2012). AI and mathematical e ducation. Education Sciences, 2(1),22 -32. 
Guilherme,A.(2019).  AIandeducation:theimportanceofteacherandstudentrelations. AI & society , 
34(1),47 -54. 
Hsu, Y.,  & Chaing, Y. H. (2021, July). The Strategic Advantages of ArtificialIntelligence System for 
Product Design Teams with Diverse Cross -Domain Knowledge. In International Conference 
on Human -Computer Interaction (pp. 408 -419). Springer,Cham.  
Hung, K., Yeung, A. W. K., Tanaka, R., & Bornstein, M. M. (2020). Current applications, 
opportunities, and limitations  of AI for 3D imaging in dental research and practice.  
International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health , 17(12),4424.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
98 In Proceedings of the AAAI/ACM Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society (pp. 228 -234).  
Khan,  M.M.,  Rizwan -ul-Hasan,  S., Ahme d, A., Khan,  M.A.,  & Fahad,  M. (2020,  February). AI 
Surveillance UGV. In 2020 Inte[rnational Conference on Information Science and 
Communication Technology (ICISCT) (pp. 1 -6).IEEE.  
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., &  Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review. Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1),86 -96. 
McCarthy, J. (1998). What is artificial  intelligence?.  
Murali1, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018).  Artificial intelligence in healthcare –areview.  
Ozbay, F. A., &  Alatas, B. (2020). Fake news detection within online social media using 
supervisedartificialintelligencealgorithms.PhysicaA:StatisticalMechanicsanditsApplications, 
540, 123174.  
Pande, G. N., &  Shin, H. S. (2004, February). Artificial intelligence v. equations. In Proceedings of 
the Institution of Civil Engineers -Civil Engineering (Vol. 157, No. 1, pp. 39 -42). Thomas 
Telford Ltd. 
Rahim, S. M., Mohamad, Z. Z., Bakar, J. A., Mohsin, F. H., & Isa, N. M. (2018).Artificial 
intelligence, smart contract and islamic finance. Asian  Social  
Satpathy, S., Nandan Mohanty, S., Chatterjee, J. M., & Swain, A. (2021).Comprehensive Claims of 
AI for Healthcare Applications -Coherence Towards COVID -19. In Applications  of Artificial 
Intelligence in COVID -19 (pp. 3 -18). Springer,  Singapore.  Science, 14(2), 145.  
Smirnov, Y. (1999).  Applying  AI to Manufacturing  Linear  Order  Promising  and Production Planning. 
In The Workshop on E -Commerce, American Association for Artificial Intelligence Spring 
Symposium,  Stanford.  
Tao, B., Díaz, V., & Guerra, Y. (2019). Artificial Intelligence and Education, Challenges and 
Disadvantages for the Teacher. Arctic Journal, 72(12),30 -50. 
Wan, J., Li, X., Dai, H. N., Kusiak, A., Mart ínez-García, M., & Li, D. (2020).Artificial - intelligence -
driven customised manufacturing factory: key technologies, applications, and challenges. 
Proceedings of the IEEE , 109(4),377 -398. 
Warwick, K. (2013). Artificial intelligence: the basics.  Routledge.  
Xu, S., & Hung, K. (2020, April). Development of an ai -based system for automatic  detection and 
recognition of weapons in surveillance videos. In 2020 IEEE 10th Symposium on Computer 
Applications & Industrial Electronics (ISCAIE) (pp. 48 -52).IEEE.  
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
99 WIRELE SS POWER TRANSMISSION TECHNOLOGIES FOR WSNS 
AND CHARGING OF MOBILE DEVICES  
 
ANIMISHA  CS 
 
VL DARSHAN RAM  
 
KONISH BAGCHI  
Email ID: animishcs23@gmail.com  
 
Abstract  
Wireless charging is the charging of devices not attached to the power source by any physical means. Wireless 
charging provides a hassle free to charge mobile devices on the go and with advancement in technology could 
eliminate the need for batteries in mobile devices.  In this paper we delve into various modes of power 
transmission both radiative and non - radiative and its implementation in mobile devices and WSNs. The 
advantages of wireless charging and the shortcomings of its implementation with existing technologies are 
also discussed.  
Keywords: Wireless charging, Radiative and Non -Radiative, Wi reless Power Transmission (WPT), Wireless 
Sensor Networks (WSN)  
 
Introduction  
In the past few decades there has been a huge increase in the development and an even increase in 
the usage of electronic devices such as laptops, phones and even toothbrushes. D ue to this surge a 
sudden surge in wireless charging technology has surfaced.   
 Wireless charging is the charging of devices through any media that does not need a physical 
tether attached to the device and a power source. Wireless power transfer based on magnetic 
resonance and magnetic coupling was pioneered by Nikola Tesla more than 100 years ago. Power 
transfer can be both radiative and non -radiative based on the transfer mechanism used. Radiative 
transfer works on electromagnetic waves that transmit dat a over any media such as air or vacuum 
from antenna over a large distance. Non -radiative transfer works on the principle of magnetic 
coupling resonance as. This was the mechanism Nikola Tesla implemented in his discovery.  
 [1] Nowadays this technology is d eveloping and being implemented in many devices almost any 
mobile handheld gadget one can think of can benefit from the easy access of wireless charging from 
application of wireless power transfer.  When one compares the traditional wired charging, wireless  
charging poses numerous advantages such as  
 Easier access to charging on the go whenever and wherever one goes  
 No problems of wire damages and need to purchase a new one  
 One can implement the concepts of turbo charging through wireless means  
 Wireless cha rging can provide on demand requirement thus eliminating the requirement of 
batteries in many cases.  
 We can control the amount of power transferred which cannot be done through normal 
wired charging means  Some of the shortcomings of wireless power transfer  is the high cost 
requirements as a power transfer device needs to be installed and the mobile device requires 
some receivers which need to be installed separately, also these generate a lot of heat which 
need some additional coolers.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
100 WPT Technologies Curr ent and Past  
Nikola Tesla first envisioned the idea of wireless power transfer back in the early 20th century and 
nearly achieved this when he sent an electrical signal across the Atlantic Ocean. Nikola Tesla built 
what is considered the worlds first power transmission setup the Wardenclyffe tower in Long island, 
New York.  But due to the large scale elect ro-magnetic fields involved the method was highly 
inefficient. Since then with the advent of mobile devices the interest in wireless power transfer has 
grown again.  
 The current WPT technologies can be broadly classified into 2 groups the radiative power 
transfer methods like EM radiations and the non -radiative like inductive coupling and magnetic 
coupling.  
 
EM Waves Radiation  
E.M waves transmit energy from the transmitter antenna of the power source to the receiver antenna 
of the device in the form of EM waves. E.M waves can be either unidirectional or omni directional 
based on the direction of propagation of the waves. Omnidirectional waves are made by using a 
special type of antenna called an omnidirectional antenna where it has an axis and the radio wav es 
are propagated outward radially in a symmetric fashion. Both unidirectional and omnidirectional 
waves are used for different means and suffer setbacks of their own. Omnidirectional waves are 
suitable for transferring information, but it cannot be used o ver a long distance as EM waves 
dissipate energy over distance and time and decay also for the safety purposes omnidirectional 
waves are used only in low power nodes as high frequency waves having higher energy can pose a 
health risk for people. Unidirecti onal waves can transmit high power radiation over a long distance 
but can work only if a clear line of sight (LOS) is established. Microwaves or laser beams are 
usually used. One such application of this mode of transmission is the control of the unmanned 
aircraft SHARP (Stationary High -Altitude Relay Platform) designed by Canada‘s communication 
research centre. The SHARP could fly in circles of up to 2km and could fly for months at a time. 
However unidirectional waves cannot be used for charging mobile dev ices or WSNs as a few 
criteria have to be met for it to work such as the LOS and complicated tracking mechanisms.  
 
Inductive Coupling  
Inductive coupling works on the phenomena of magnetic induction i.e. when an alternating current 
is passed through a primary coil it creates varying magnetic fields that induce an EMF in the 
terminals of the secondary coil. Inductive coupling mechanism is used widely in everyday products 
such as wireless charging pads for mobile phones however inductive effect between co ils decreases 
as we move away from the coil. For even a small distance the effect reduces due to this the 
transmitter node and the receiver node have to be close to each other and in a particular alignment 
for power transfer to take place. Because of these  limitations inductive coupling is not suitable for 
charging WSN over a long distance. Research in inductive coupling has led to development of 
different mechanisms such as magnetic resonant coupling.  
 
Magnetic Resonant Coupling  
Magnetic resonant coupling is based on the evanescent waves which transfer energy between two 
oscillating or resonating magnetic coils. An evanescent wave is an oscillating electro -magnetic field 
that does not propagate as electro -magnetic radiation, butthe energy is spatially conce ntrated near 
the source. This is obtained by having resonant magnetic coils operate at the same resonant Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
101 frequency so that they are coupled by non -radiative magnetic resonance. Using this phenomenon 
high energy transfer can take place with minimal leakage due to dissipation. Magnetic resonant 
coupling can charge devices placed at slightly larger distances when compared to inductive coupling 
(in magnetic resonant coupling the receiving node and the transmitter node can be placed a few 
metres apart when compa red to almost being in close contact in the case of inductive coupling) and 
more efficiently than omnidirectional EM waves and eliminates the LOS requirement for the 
unidirectional waves. Also, magnetic coupling resonance can be applied between one transmi ssion 
resonator and many receiving resonators i.e. many receiving nodes can connect to a single source 
node in this mechanism. However, there are some shortcomings in this technique as well. Firstly, for 
the power transfer to work efficiently the nodes nee d to be aligned co -axially and when many 
numbers of nodes are connected to the source mutual inductance can take place between them and 
this can cause some interference.  
 
Applications of WPT Technologies  
Based on the range of the aforementioned techniques for wireless power transfer we can classify 
them as near field or far field charging.  
 Far field charging can be achieved through either omnidirectional EM waves or unidirectional 
EM waves. For unidirectional waves only one receiving node can be connected to the source node 
and a dedicated LOS has to be established first, but it can achieve high power transfer with good 
efficiency over a long distance even in the range of kilometres with little dissipation of energy. For 
example, as mentioned earlier the un manned aircraft SHARP could be controlled and could even 
move in circle of diameter nearly 2km other unmanned aircrafts such as Raytheon Airborne 
Microwave platform (RAMP) and High= -Altitude electric motor Power Platform (HAPP) have also 
been developed usi ng this technology. Microwave and laser beaming techniques used to transfer 
power in the range of kilowatt over long distance have been in development since the 
1960‘s.[7]Omnidirectional EM waves can operate without a LOS and also and is less sensitive to the 
orientation if the two nodes, however it has a lesser range than the unidirectional waves and also has 
lower efficiency. Wireless charging for WSNs have become the most widely used applications for 
this technique. Experiments on using this technology f or battery less devices have been conducted 
with positive results as in reports. Omnidirectional wave based sensors have also been used in 
Internet of Things (IoT) and Machine to Machine communication (M2M) systems.  
 
Near Field Charging  
Near field charging  can achieved by applying inductive coupling or magnetic resonance coupling 
effects. Most existing WPT system are based on the inductive effect mainly because of its safe 
implementation and its easy setup and access. Inductive power transfer also allows th e transfer of 
high power with comparatively higher efficiency than radio frequency EM waves. Due to these 
factors it is used widely in the automation industry. Its major applications are in induction 
generators, small scale and large robots, electric railw ay trains. It also sees a rapid development in 
the bio -medical sector for bio -medical implants.  
 
Advantages and Disadvantages  
The advantages of WPT are that it can provide a hassle -free way of charging mobile devices, 
because of this it saves time as the d evices that require to be charged can be done so while they are ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
102 in use. There is also less wastage of energy by dissipation due to internal resistances in the wires 
used for charging.  
 There a few disadvantages of wireless charging along with the advantage s. The high cost of 
implementation is one of them. Network traffic in case of many nodes may cause interference during 
the charging process/ the rate of charging may not be as high as compared to tethered charging as 
there is not advancement in this field yet. Also, the radiations used for transfer may cause some 
effects to the human body  
 
Findings  
Many different technologies exist for transmission of power wirelessly. They are inductive coupling, 
EM waves and magnetic resonance coupling which can be used for near field and far -field charging 
depending on their need and range required. All of them have their own advantages and 
disadvantages and their own uses. However, with current technology it isn‘t completely possible to 
implement these technologies into  all mobile devices so as to completely eliminate the need for 
batteries.  
 
Conclusion  
In this modern era, one does not have the time to always tether one‘s mobile device for charging all 
the time. The different technologies provide a promising way to make charging of devices easy and 
could even eliminate the need for batteries in the future.  
 In this paper the concept of WPT and its various techniques are presented. Also, the various 
advantages and disadvantages of it were also discussed. A comparative stud y of each technique and 
their advantages over each other and their shortcomings were also presented. The technology we 
currently posses is not sufficient for every gadget and more developments in current technology 
needs to be done for it to work on all ga dgets.  
 
References  
Cook, N. P., Sieber, L., & Widmer, H. (2014).  U.S. Patent No. 8,901,880 . Washington, DC: U.S. 
Patent and Trademark Office.  
Hui, S. Y. (2013). Planar wireless charging technology for portable electronic products and 
Qi. Proceedings of the  IEEE , 101(6), 1290 -1301.  
Juneja, P., & Chaudhary, R. K. Wireless Mobile Charging.  
Kaur, H. (2016). Comparative Study of Wireless Charging Mobile Phone Techniques.  
Lu, X., Wang, P., Niyato, D., Kim, D. I., & Han, Z. (2016). Wireless charging technologies: 
Fundamentals, standards, and network applications.  IEEE Communications Surveys & 
Tutorials , 18(2), 1413 -1452.  
Mohammed, S. S., Ramasamy, K., &  Shanmuganantham, T. (2010). Wireless power transmission –a 
next generation power transmission system. Internationa l Journal of Computer 
Applications , 1(13), 100 -103. 
Sayyad, A. J., &  Sarvade, N. P. (2014). Wireless Power Transmission for Charging 
Mobiles.  International Journal of Engineering Trends and Technology (IJETT) –Volume , 12, 
331-336. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
103 Vikash Mishra, Lavya  Nigam  , Anand Mohan ―Wireless Power Transmission‖ International Journal 
of Emerging Technology and Advanced Engineering Website: www.ijetae.com (ISSN 
2250 -2459,ISO 9001:2008 Certified Journal,Volume 4, Issue 2, February 2014)  
Waffenschmidt, E. (2011, October).  Wireless power for mobile devices. In  Telecommunications 
Energy Conference (INTELEC), 2011 IEEE 33rd International  (pp. 1 -9). IEEE.  
Xie, L., Shi, Y., Hou, Y. T., & Lou, A. (2013). Wireless power transfer and applications to sensor 
networks.  IEEE Wireless Communications , 20(4), 140 -145. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
1 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND ITS APPLICATIONS THAT  
ARE CHANGING THE WORLD  
 
SNEHA AGARWAL  
B. Tech Computer Science  
Email ID: sneha.agarwal2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence?  
[1] It is basically the science of developing smart machines in the form of different computer 
programs. It is related to making computer so intelligent that they can understand humans but it does 
not mean that they should also be biologicall y related to human.[2] Artificial Intelligence is the 
ability of digital computers to solve problems that are associated with high thinking ability which 
cannot be solved by human beings at the present time.[3] AI is a field of computer science that 
allows  us to create intelligent machines that behave like humans, think like humans and make their 
own decisions. Artificial intelligence is composed of two  words, artificial which defines artificial 
things and intelligence which expresses the ability to think f or oneself, so artificial intelligence is 
―artificial thinking power‖. This field was founded on the idea that someday machines will be able 
to think, that is, they will be able to reproduce intellect and intelligence, along with consciousness, 
the functio ns that make us human. It may sound like science fiction or a concept of a new era, but in 
fact there are references to them in myths as well as other text, scriptures, and artefacts. Artificial 
Intelligence is not just a turning point in the field of rese arch but also in the revolutionary industry 
and work as we know it today. With the ultimate goal of creating consciousness, AI goes through 
different stages: planning, reasoning, data analysis, predicting outcomes and acting accordingly. 
Artificial Intelli gence includes the use of statistics and probability, as well as many mathematical 
tools (neural networks and machine learning are mostly based on them).  
 
History of AI  
[4] Artificial  intelligence (AI) missions start  with dreams, like  all missions.  People have long 
imagined machines with human capabilities - automatic cars that move and the devices that work for 
it. Human -like machines are depicted  in many stories and depicted  in sculptures, paintings  and 
drawings. You may be familiar with many of them,  but let me mention a few. Homer's Iliad  speaks  
of self-propelled  chairs known as "tripods"  and gold "carts" built  by Hephaestus,  the lame 
blacksmith god, to help him move.  Metamorphosis,  Pygmalian sculpts an ivory statue of a beautiful 
young girl,  Galatea, wh ich Venus brought  to life. [5] In 1847, George Boole became the first person 
to describe formal language for logical reasoning. In 1950, Alan Turing gave a theory to check 
software‘s intelligence. According to his theory any software is considered intellig ent if a human 
being talking to it cannot predict whether he is talking to a computer or a person. This test was 
called the Turing test. [6]  People realized that the intelligent machine is an idea whose time has 
come, and it is not only this computer  that presents a vehicle  with which such a dream can be 
realized. There is a constellation of events, most notably the change  from the dominant  model,  the 
energy physicist's concept,  to a new model,  the cybernetics‘ concept,  and has constant efforts  to 
describe psychology  and biological phenomena mathematically.  Because of these convergence 
points,  a young associate  professor of mathematics at Dartmouth College named John McCarthy, 
who had been fascinated by these questions  for quite some time,  suggested for his friends that real ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
2 progress can be realized  if only everyone is solving  these problems. Those  three friends, Marvin 
Minsky, another young researcher  were  Harvard Junior Fellows  in Mathematics  and Neuroscience,  
Nathaniel Rochester, director  of information studies  at the IBM  Research Centre  in Poughkeepsie, 
N, Y., and Claude Shannon, then,  a mathematician at Bell Laboratories who was heavily involved in 
the model transformation  from energy to information, agreed that perhaps  it was it's  not a bad idea ,  
and together with  McCarthy submitted  a proposal to the Rockefeller Foundation  for "a study of  ten 
two-month -old men on  artificial intelligence conducted in  the summer of 1956 in Dartmouth 
College in Hanover, New Hampshire . Research must be conducted  on the bas is of conjecture that 
any aspect of learning or any other characteristic  of intelligence can in principle be described 
precisely  so accurate that  could bring  a machine to mimic‖. This  is the first time the term artificial 
intelligence  has been officially u sed. Work going on in this area,  he has promoted the term and 
despite several  other proposals and one number of grumbles, artificial intelligence is still blocked.  In 
addition, others made short visits to talk about related work. Among those  visitors were Alex 
Bernstein, then programmers from IBM in New York City were invited to talk about the chess 
program he was working on, which would receive a lot of the public then, causing IBM, people to 
fear that the idea of  smart machines was so threatening that it would deter customers from buying 
computers.  
 
Growth of AI  
[7]Artificial Intelligence is growing rapidly as a factor of competitiveness and is being used by large  
companies rapidly. It cannot be confined only to individual companies but also has a high potential 
to contribute in national economy system. [8] Artificial intelligence (AI) is considered as the Fourth 
Industrial Revolution. Artificial intelligence with big data has changed all industries around the 
world. Artificial intelligence refers to the simulation of human or animal intelligence in a computer 
system, thinking of it as an intelligent entity and programmed to mimic the behaviour of the 
intelligent en tity. Computer systems with  programmed intelligence can solve a variety of real -world 
problems much more accurately and efficiently than  deterministic and hard -coded computer 
systems. AI plays an important role in solving problems in the business world, as  many problems in 
business and business analytics cannot be solved by the deterministic system. Machine learning and 
deep learning, a subset of the realm of AI, solves and optimizes many business issues such as 
marketing,  Credit card fraud detection, algor ithmic trading, customer service, portfolio management, 
product recommendation and many more. AI and big data revolutionized the business world.  
 
AI in Healthcare appliances  
[9] The experts observed that out of  more than  50 patients per day, which can be very debilitating 
for people considering  the amount of advice  and information needed for  people.  Unlike physicians,  
AIs are not episodic  by number  of patients, hours of work,  and are redundant in duties.  AI helps 
doctors assess how dangerous a patient's  health is and then uses intelligence to not only develop 
quality of care, but also observe and advise  patients on the effects  side effects of certain drugs. The 
global  impact of AI is very challenging,  with high-tech developed tools to improve decision making, 
disease detection  and management of diseases  such as chronic diseases  and acute diseases.  Doctors 
and other medical professionals use AI for more accurate diagnosis.  In medicine, AI uses arithmetic  
algorithms as well as  human body data science  to diagnose,  better than doctors can do. This gives 
professionals  the ability for  to take immediate action on  illnesses  that could  become serious.  Health  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
3 systems need  to be understood about the  variety of systems that are  heterogeneous, distributed and 
common,  speak  different  languages, integrate medical devices  and are personalized by different 
entities, respectively identified  by people living in different  contexts and aiming for different  goals. 
Analysis of tests, X -rays, CT scans, records  entry and differen t habitual  obligations  can all be 
achieved  much quicker  and with extra  precision via way of means of  robots. Cardiology and 
radiology are regions  where the quantity  of records  to bear in mind  can be overwhelming and 
tedious. Future cardiologists and radiol ogists ought to  bear in mind  only the maximum  complicated  
cases for which human tracking  are useful. IBM got here  up with any other  set of rules  called 
Medical Sieve. It is a bold long-time period  investigative project that targets  to create the subsequent  
technology  of "cognitive assistants" with analytical and reasoning competencies  and a variety  of 
medical  knowledge. Medical Sieve is certified  to aid medical  choice  making in Radiology and 
Cardiology. The "cognitive fitness  assistant" is that may  test X-ray pictures  for markers and discover  
complications  quicker  and greater  reliably [10] AI is nowadays been used in the orthognathic 
surgery as intra -oral scanner software which helps in faster and more efficient acquisition. Also the 
use of AI in 3D radiolog y improves the signal to noise ratio and gives a higher quality image which 
eventually helps to lower the doses of radiations.[9]Artificial Intelligence is being used in machines 
like echocardiograms, MRIs, CT scans, etc to test screening results. It helps  to measure the accurate 
working and analysis from the beginning till the end of the healing process. [11] AI devices mainly 
divide  into two main  categories. The first category includes machine learning (ML) techniques that 
analyze  structured data such as imaging, genetics,  and EP data. In medical applications, ML 
procedures attempt to group patient‘s characteristics  or infer probability of disease. The second 
category includes natural language processing (NLP) takes information from the unstructured data 
like medical journals to complete  and enrich structured medical data. NLP procedures are used for 
converting text  into machine -readable  structured data, which can then be analyzed using ML 
techniques.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[12]Smart technologi es like Internet of Things, Cloud Computing, Big data and Cyber -Physical 
systems lead to the emergence of intelligent manufacturing as a new version of Smart 
manufacturing. [13] Modern production  and logistics systems are supported by increasingly 
widespre ad and powerful computer  networks. In these networks, the constant ocean  of data is 
generated by sensors, machines, systems, smart devices, and people. With increasing computing 
power,  this Big Data is being analyzed  faster, wider  and deeper  than ever before. These 
advancements  have redefined the value of artificial intelligence  (AI) technologies and ushered in  a 
new era known as Industry 4.0 or Smart Factory. Advanced cognitive computing and deep learning 
methods have begun to find applicati ons in manufacturing systems for automated visual inspection,  
fault detection, and maintenance. Active efforts  are being made  to apply reinforcement learning 
methods to material handling and production planning systems.  Industries that hope  to transform 
real-time data into actionable decisions are looking for  opportunities to integrate AI methods with 
traditional operations research  approaches, concepts and technologies Internet of Things (IoT) as 
well as network physical  systems. [14]AI technologies could assist the production planner in 
choosing the best production process which not only reduces the cost of production but also 
increases the quality and efficiency of the production process. It also helps to build an intelligent 
system which automatically ad apts the process parameters according to changing conditions. [15] ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
4 Intelligent method designing may be a dynamic and sophisticated activity. Method designing 
provides a close description of manufacturability and needs for changing raw materials stock into 
finished product. Intelligent method designing includes computer -aided process planning (CAPP) 
and layout of facilities and locations. Method designing is that interface between Computer -Aided 
Design (CAD) and Computer -Aided Manufacturing (CAM). CAPP is im portant in achieving the 
final word goal of totally integrated factories within the future. The CAPP system contains an 
outsized quantity of data as well as rules for organization of machine operations and factual 
information concerning the shop. Inventory  management is additionally thought of during these 
sections as a result of palmy inventory management is important to palmy producing and needs 
refined strategies for handling dynamical surroundings. The literature is choked with articles on 
freelance the oretical models of demand inventory; however it lags behind these developments. AI 
will play a very important role in serving to practitioners implement such models and conjointly 
overcome the issues related to large -scale inventory management.  
 
AI in Secu rity and Surveillance  
[16]Michael Rogers‘, the director of National Security Agency (NSA) said that the agency sees AI 
as the foundation to the future of cyber security. In December 2016, DRDA held a head to head fight 
challenge between autonomous machine s. Each machine was capable of automatically finding and 
making use of cyber vulnerabilities in its opponents and at the same time mending its own 
vulnerabilities and protecting itself from external cyber attacks. As a result of this tournament DoD 
began t he ‗Project Voltron‘ to develop such systems to scan and patch vulnerabilities in the U.S. 
military. [17]Activities such as Advanced Persistent Threat operations, which are currently more 
labour intensive in the coming times, may become largely automated a nd easily available on the 
black market with the increasing development in AI. [18] The application of AI - based techniques 
has great potential to boost the security and potency of data -driven Intelligent Transportation 
Systems (ITS) further as new service s and rising of the Internet of Vehicles (IoV). This text 
discusses the sensible implementation of deep learning strategies to reinforce safety and security in 
very specific ITS scenarios such as railway crossings. This work presents the projected system 
named Artificial Intelligence -based Surveillance System for Railway Crossing Traffic (AISS4RCT). 
It supports a mixture of detection and classification strategies and specializes in numerous image 
processing inputs such as vehicle presence, pedestrian presen ce, vehicle chase, rail barriers at level 
crossings, scene railway signals and signal fire system. The system is meant to use properly 
positioned cameras to capture the complete crossing space at a given intersection. By utilizing GPU - 
accelerated image pr ocess and deep neural networks, the system mechanically detects risky and 
dangerous things at railway crossings in real time. Additionally, camera modules send information 
to a central server for additional process further as notification to interested par ties like police, 
emergency services and railway operators. In addition, the system design uses privacy and security 
based practices deliberately to secure all communication interfaces, shield personal information and 
increase  everyone‘s privacy, i.e., ped estrians and motorists.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Education  
[19]Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS) uses artificial intelligence technologies to stimulate 
individualized human learning and provides educational activities that best match the analytical 
needs of the learner. In addition to this it also provides targeted and timely feedbacks without the 
presence of any individual faculty. Some ITS put learners  in control of their own learning to help Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
5 students develop self-regulation  skills; others use instructional strategies  to extend  learning so that 
learners are  appropriately challenged and supported.  For example,  BUGGY, a revolutionary  system 
designed to teach basic addition and subtraction, used a model of possible misconceptions that 
learners could present among learn their procedure. This "error library", is  in fact the system's  
domain model, used to diagnose any student errors  so that appropriate tutoring can be provided . 
Modern model -driven adaptive systems can be much more flexible. They allow the rationale for all 
system decisions to be made unambiguously and understandable by humans (and thus applicable to 
classroom instruction). Over the past decade, increasingly complex learner models, pedagogies, and 
domains have been introduced into many a daptive tutors to support personalized learning. For 
example, the iTalk2Learn system, designed to help young students learn fractions, used a learner 
model that included information about math knowledge, cognitive needs, status affective 
(emotional) state,  the feedback they receive, and their reaction to those comments . [20]Intelligent 
Tutoring Systems (ITS) offers great flexibility in the presentation of material and has a good ability 
to respond to the individual needs of the student. These systems achiev e their intelligence by 
representing the decisions about how to teach a particular student as well as gives information about 
the learner. This allows great diversity by changing the way system interacts with the student. [21] 
Squirrel a famous company in China uses AI in education. For every course that the company offers, 
the engineering team works with a group of master teachers to break down the subject into the 
smallest possible conceptual pieces known as knowledge points. The purpose is to diagnose th e 
student gap in understanding as accurately as possible. Once knowledge points are established, they 
are paired with video presentations, notes, edited examples and exercises.  
 
Advantages of AI  
[22] Artificial intelligence (AI) applications are used to si mulate human intelligence to solve a 
problem or make a decision. AI provides the benefits of permanence, reliability, and cost -
effectiveness while addressing uncertainty and speed in  solving a problem or making a decision. AI 
has been used in fields as  diverse as engineering, economics, linguistics, law, manufacturing,  and 
medicine, and for a wide range  of modelling, prediction, and decision support applications, 
regulation  and control.  One of the most promising applications of AI has been rigorously used o n 
the Internet, as well  as in search engines. In  an organization where  human intelligence is tied to a 
particular person or to a group of people, AI applications can provide the permanence  that 
knowledge is not  lost as individuals  or group members retire or are no longer available to the 
organization. The lifespan  of knowledge encapsulated within  an AI framework can be extended  as 
long as the relevance of the problems and decision scenarios remains  unchanged. AI also enables the 
development of learning capabilities  that can be used to extend  the life and relevance of 
applications. Learning from real-world successes  and failures  is an enabling trait of application 
tools. AI  is called "reinforcement learning"  and has the advantage  that it increases the reliability of 
tools as they are used more  in applications.  [23] AI already has many applications in the medical 
field such as online bookings of appointments for various doctors, online check -in at the medical 
centres, digitization of m edical records, follow -ups for booking and even vaccination reminders for 
children and pregnant women. It is also being used to give warnings of the side effects to the doctors 
when prescribing combination of several medicines. [24] One of the great things  about Artificial 
Intelligence is that it makes decision based on facts and not on emotions. It is a much known fact 
that even after our best efforts; human decisions are always adversely affected by the emotions. [25] 
The area of robotics is often referre d to as the sub -area of AI that deals with perceptual and motor 
tasks. A robot is a mechanical device that performs an automated task under the direct supervision 
of a human being, under a predefined program, or under a set of common guidelines using artif icial 
intelligence technology. [26] Today, as clients become more sophisticated and knowledgeable, they ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
6 prefer to make financial transitions with less human interactions. The technical field is much broader 
and has the potential to improve the overall effi ciency of the financial system. One of the most 
popular tools is the smart contract, a computer program that can execute contract terms (Idelberger, 
Governatori, Riveret & Sartor, 2016). Fully automated smart contracts can complement or 
completely replace common legal contracts. This is clear as Smart contracts are becoming 
increasingly important in multiple industries such as healthcare, real estate and securities. There are 
about possible uses for banking systems, insurance, management, etc.  
 
Disadvantage s of AI  
[27] Artificial Intelligence makes people lazy because applications automate most of the work. 
People tend to push themselves into these inventions, which can weigh on future generations. Since  
AI replaces  the majority of repetitive tasks and other  jobs with robots, with less  human intervention,  
which can be  a significant problem in usage  standards. Every organization seeks  to exchange the 
minimum number of skilled  individuals with AI bots that can  do the same job  more efficiently. 
There is no doubt  that machines are much  better when it comes to efficiency,  but they cannot  replace 
the human connections  that make up  the team. Machines cannot bond with humans,  which is an 
important attribute  when it comes to team management.  Machines can only perform the tasks for 
which they were  designed or programmed to attempt; anything they tend  to fail or produce  irrelevant 
outputs can be a context of  serious scene . [28] The high cost of developing AI -based applications 
can mean that the first impulse comes from th e private sector. Needless to say, businesses can earn 
revenue from areas with large profit pools without having to deal with socially relevant issues such 
as equal access. [29] Given all the possible events in the real world, big data learning takes a lon g 
time, so AI is usually limited to one frame or type of problem. For example, if we limit the 
algorithm to only applying to chess, image recognition, or speech, we can only expect specific 
results. However, in the real world there are infinite possibiliti es that we have to anticipate when 
trying to handle all phenomena, so database overload will make the search time infinite. [30] One of 
the ethical dilemmas that can be identified is the issue of unemployment. The development of 
specialized machines has le d to the fact that more and more workplaces have been replaced from the 
Industrial Revolution to the present. Starting with less skilled and repetitive task that requires little 
reasoning to perform to even surgical precision and more complex tasks are bei ng replaced by 
economically more efficient machines. [31] Computers cannot handle unexpected situations. For 
students, the learning environment is diverse and constantly changing. Due to the limitations of 
computer artificial intelligence, computer technol ogy does not respond to students‘ unexpected 
learning problems as teachers do and also does not immediately answer students‘ questions.  
 
Conclusion  
From the above discussion,  we can see that artificial intelligence technologies make human's  life 
easier  and that by, future artificial intelligence technologies may bring greater  competitive 
advantage. In this way, Artificial Intelligence can make great discoveries and breakthroughs for 
mankind thanks to its many capabilities. Most of the AI systems are cap able of learning, which 
allows people to improve their performance over time. Evidence shows that AI can bring real added 
value to our lives. AI works on the basis of accessing huge amounts of information, processing it, 
analyzing it and, according to its operational algorithms, performing tasks to solve certain problems. 
Finally,  during this research, we went  through AI definitions, brief history, growth of AI, AI in 
healthcare appliances, AI in security and surveillance, AI in education, some advantages a nd 
disadvantages of AI. This is not the top of AI, there is  more to learn,  who knows what AI can do for 
us in the future maybe that  will be a whole robotics company . Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
7 Reference s 
Abdulov, R. (2020). Artificial intelligence as an important factor of sustainable and crisis -free 
economic growth. Procedia Computer Science, 169, 468 -472. 
Allen, G., & Chan, T. (2017).  Artificial intelligence and national security . Cambridge, MA: Belfer 
Center for Science and International Affairs.  
Amisha, P. M., Pathania, M., & Rathaur, V. K. (2019). Overview of artificial intelligence in 
medicine. Journal of family medicine and primary care, 8(7), 2328.  
Beck, J., Stern, M., & Haugsjaa, E. (1996). Applications of AI in Education.  XRDS: Crossroads, 
The ACM Magazine for Stude nts, 3(1), 11 -15. 
Benko, A., & Lányi, C. S. (2009). History of artificial intelligence. In Encyclopedia of Information 
Science and Technology, Second Edition (pp. 1759 -1762). IGI Global.  
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadv antages of Artificial 
Intellegence. Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal, 227 -230. 
Bouletreau, P., Makaremi, M., Ibrahim, B., Louvrier, A., &Sigaux, N. (2019). Artificial intelligence: 
applications in orthognathic surgery. Journal of st omatology, oral and maxillofacial surgery, 
120(4), 347 -354. 
Charniak, E. (1985).  Introduction to artificial intelligence . Pearson Education India.  
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence i n manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial 
intelligence.  Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 36 0-
375. 
Ertel, W. (2018). Introduction to artificial intelligence. Springer.  
Ghimire, A., Thapa, S., Jha, A. K., Adhikari, S., & Kumar, A. (2020, October). Accelerating 
business growth with big data and artificial intelligence. In  2020 Fourth International 
Conference on I -SMAC (IoT in Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud)(I -SMAC)  (pp. 441 -
448). IEEE.  
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., & Scharre, P. (2018).  Artificial 
intelligence and international security . Center for a New American Security..  
Jiang, F., Jiang, Y., Zhi, H., Dong, Y., Li, H., Ma, S., ... & Wang, Y. (2017). Artificial intelligence 
in healthcare: past, present and future.  Stroke and vascular neurology , 2(4). 
Kalyanakrishnan, S., Panicker, R. A., Natarajan, S., &  Rao, S. (2018, December). Opportunities and 
challenges for artificial intelligence in India. In Proceedings of the 2018 AAAI/ACM 
conference on AI, Ethics, and Society (pp. 164 -170).  
Knox, J. (2020). Artificial intelligence and education in China.  Learning , Media and 
Technology , 45(3), 298 -311 
Lai, C. C., & Kritsonis, W. A. (2006). The advantages and disadvantages of computer technology in 
second language acquisition.  Online Submission , 3(1). 
Lu, H., Li, Y., Chen, M., Kim, H., & Serikawa, S. (2018). Brain intelligence: go beyond artificial 
intelligence.  Mobile Networks and Applications , 23(2), 368 -375. 
Luckin, R., Holmes, W., Griffiths, M., & Forcier, L. B. (2016). Intelligence unleashed: An argument 
for AI in education.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
8 Mayr, A., Weigelt, M., Masuch, M., M einers, M., Hüttel, F., & Franke, J. (2018). Application 
scenarios of artificial intelligence in electric drives production. Procedia Manufacturing, 24, 
40-47. 
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?  
McCorduck, P., Minsky, M., Selfridge, O. G ., & Simon, H. A. (1977, August). History of artificial 
intelligence. In IJCAI (pp. 951 -954).  
Meziane, F., Vadera, S., Kobbacy, K., & Proudlove, N. (2000). Intelligent systems in 
manufacturing: current developments and future prospects.  Integrated manufact uring 
systems . 
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries. In  Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At 
Defence Scientific Information and Documentation Cen tre, Ministry of Defence Delhi . 
Murali¹, N., & Sivakumaran, N. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare –a review.  
Nilsson, N. J. (2009).  The quest for artificial intelligence . Cambridge University Press.  
Rahim, S. M., Mohamad, Z. Z., Bakar, J. A., Mohsin, F. H., & Isa, N. M. (2018). Artificial 
intelligence, smart contract and islamic finance.  Asian Social Science , 14(2), 145.  
Sikora, P., Malina, L., Kiac, M., Martinasek, Z., Riha, K., Prinosil, J., ... & Srivastava, G. (2020). 
Artificial intelligenc e-based surveillance system for railway crossing traffic.  IEEE Sensors 
Journal . 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Tao, B., Díaz, V., & Guerra, Y. (2019). Artificial Intelli gence and Education, Challenges and 
Disadvantages for the Teacher.  Arctic Journal , 72(12), 30 -50. 
Yao, X., Zhou, J., Zhang, J., &Boër, C. R. (2017, September). From intelligent manufacturing to 
smart manufacturing for industry 4.0 driven by next generation  artificial intelligence and 
further on. In 2017 5th international conference on enterprise systems (ES) (pp. 311 -318). 
IEEE.  
 
 
 
 
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
136 CLOUD COMPUTING SECURITY  
 
TANNIRU PRABHU   
 
ESHWAR  S 
 
ALLEN BASTIAN  
Email ID: allenbastian1207@gmail.com  
 
Abstract  
In this paper, we have focused on cloud computing security and to develop the data security.  Cloud computing 
security is one of the technologies which is fast developing and also should be developed in case of security. 
Recent technologies and people demand more security for data which they want to store safely in some forum. 
So, cloud computing m ust be secure enough to store data. Virtualisation is the key aspect which works behind 
the cloud security. We have even discussed the advantages of cloud computing along with the security issues 
faced by the users. You can even find out  about the security  operating organization which ensures the security 
of data to some extent.  
Keywords:  virtualization , scalability , infrastructure , cloud service providers, storage security . 
 
Introduction  
Cloud computing security often referred to  as cloud security is a set of policies and control -based 
technologies that protect any kind of data, application and the infrastructure related to the data of 
cloud computing. Like internet service is provided by Internet service providers (ISP), this clo ud 
service is provided by the cloud service providers (CSP). It gives us a platform for the user to get 
access to the cloud computing in a very efficient way. With  this cloud computing, the client can 
easily communicate with server -side application or serv ice by the use of the internet infrastructure. 
The security process i.e. the process of protecting the data from the unknown user involved here is 
mainly controlled and managed by the IaaS (Infrastructure as a service).  
 Cloud computing mainly focus on IT  sector and most business fields, as no special hardware is 
required; updates and patches are very fast, as they are directly done by the virtual  server over a 
secure internet connection. It also helps an individual to work and transform data remotely from  any 
corner of the world.  
 However, we people do not own the infrastructure physically, still, we can access those 
resources by paying a subscription  fee or some without a fee. The main thing behind this is basically 
to reduce the burden of paying money fo r the software licence, the storage hardware and other 
things like e -mail, etc. as the whole resource is provided by the cloud service provider. So this 
makes the cloud computing more users friendly.  
 As soon as the introduction of cloud computing took pla ce, there was a massive reduction in the 
budget by  about 18% in the IT sector, while data centre power costs got reduced by 16%.  
 
Literary Survey  
[1]This cloud computing is the communication between the server and the client. This service is 
provided by the CSP i.e. cloud service provider. There are many technologies like cloud computing 
but there are 5 aspects that make  it more advantageous than ot her. Those are (i) Multitenancy, 
(ii)Massive scalability, (iii)Elasticity, (iv) Pay as you go, (v)Self -provisioning of resources. Cloud Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
137 computing is initiated by three different models Public Cloud -It involves the usual thing like the 
default one. Second is  the Private cloud - it allows the user to build how the information is stored. 
The third  is the Hybrid cloud - it includes both the private and the public in the same  interface. The 
main thing is that the CSP must intimate every facility and tell every user about the deployment in it.  
 [2] Cloud security is the main key for the cloud success. There are two technologies which are 
mainly used in cloud computing, one is t he Multi -tenancy and second thing is the virtualization. 
IaaS (Infrastructure as a service) is mainly dependent on the virtualization technology. This 
enhances the security and isolation process in the cloud computing. Multi -tenancy can be achieved 
through  the use of the virtualization. The thing is virtualization allows the user to run any OS 
(operating system) on the same  physical device. Cloud computing has 2 types of virtualization Para-
virtualization  and full virtualization. The notable difference betw een these two things is the full 
virtualization; the complete  system has to be emulated. But for the paravirtualization modification is 
done to OS so that the work is performed easily.  
 [3] The security issues in cloud computing which came into limelight because of certain 
academics and black hats were considered as fundamentally new but it is relative to the traditional 
way of cloud computing and these kinds of problems already received attention. Even though after 
the exponential  growth of cloud computin g still the security issues in cloud computing possess as a 
threatto  its development. In the present economic case even, the security issues will not prevent it 
from becoming a consumer  commodity. Cloud computing forms the basis for large -scale  
computation business. Cloud computing made large -scale computations become universally 
accessible, affordable, and useful.  
 [4]Cloud computing is considered the latest and exponential growing technology as seen in the 
past few years. It gives a user to ac cess their data cheaply with minimum cost to increase their 
potential in data storage. The user  can assess their data through the network . There is increasing 
concern about the security along with the development of cloud across the world. As it exposes th e 
secrets of different companies and industries to the wrong hands which affect them a lot. Their self -
reputation could also be damage it exposes to the public . In some,  the organisation could not access 
to their own data but gets spread with many copies. For this, a security organisation is present to 
ensure the security i.e., Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL). This helps the user to 
be safe up to a limit but not completely.  
 [5] With cloud computing, the IT field has reached higher limi ts in data storage with less cost. 
While the concern of security arises when an individual goes deeper into the data storage and 
programming which could be revealed to the public. Cloud computing offers a user to store their 
data with a reasonable lower co st. It is a service  orientated application with the aim of helping the 
people but it should have security. Cloud can be classified into different types -public cloud, private 
cloud, and hybrid cloud. Cloud is further divided on the basis of delivery models  – infrastructure as 
a service (IaaS), software as a service (SaaS), platform as a service (PaaS). For the cloud to be user-
friendly  it should have certain security requirements  such as identification and authentication, 
authorisation, confidentiality, int egrity, non -reputation, and availability.  
 [6] Cloud computing is a platform providing the user with the service through the internet  in 
storage, implementation. It helps in saving the time and cost for the institution.  It helps in the 
improvement of  the h ospital, banking, and many industries. The data of the user is stored by data 
centres such as Microsoft, Amazon , Google , and Salesforce . Some of the problems faced by the 
cloud are leaking of data, resource sharing, availability of data and so on. It gives  demand for access ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
138 for the users in helping store their data such as photos, videos, etc. there are plenty computing issues 
as it deals with system operating, scheduling of resources, networks, database, etc. various concerns 
in security are – data locatio n, data availability, data transmission, data segregation, application and 
server access.  
 [7] Cloud computing is regarded as the latest technology in the IT field. In the previous 
generations,  the means of storage is by physical means (hardware) but cloud  gives a user to save the 
data in software means which allows the user to use it from any corner of the world provided there is 
the availability  of the network . There are different types of problem statements such as - system 
models, adversary model, design  goals, notation and preliminaries. The users must ensure that the 
data that they have stored is secured and not exposed locally. This could be for several reasons 
maybe the server maybe right or the there are people who will hack the cloud of others. Duri ng 
storage correctness,  we could identify data corruption (the servers who are misbehaving could be 
identified.  
 [8] As a matter of fact, technology is more boon than bane for the society. Cloud computing is 
one of the fast -emerging technology in the world . However, one must be cautious and vigilant 
enough to understand the security issues and challenges faced while using this technology. Few 
frequent challenges faced are data loss, phishing etc. While this comes as a challenge for many IT 
companies and Cor porates as data is stored ona hard  disk without knowledge of how the secure the 
information is passed and stored. Widely faced security issues are most frequent in public cloud. 
Generally, cloud consists of three commonly used domains public cloud, private cloud , hyb90 -rid 
cloud. Hybrid cl oud is something that uses both public and private clouds, they generally used by IT 
companies. AS we look into statics provided we can clearly note that issue of security stands on first 
with 74.6% then stands performance on second with 63.1%. When it com es to hackers they use the 
cloud  as a platform for botnet as cloud services are a low investment for them to do their work. In 
this paper,  you can know the key factors that cause this issue are well described.  
 [9] In this fast advancing global world, clou d computing plays a major  role in the digital 
platform. On the other hand,  there is a great threat to this fast emerging service, that is security. So, 
one must be cautious enough while using this technology, as no one knows where the information is 
stored , how securely it is stored and transferred during the time of access by the individual. The 
technical  issue arises when the user‘s data has to be released by the cloud in order to reach the user, 
this issue arises. Whether the data is transferred securely  or data leaks may have taken place while 
sending to the user‘s server. You can also know the varied reasons that there behind this technical 
issue in cloud computing.  
 [10] The main aim of this article is to classify and organise the main security concern s that are 
associated with cloud computing, also helps in finding concerns that are unanswered. In this 
article,  you can know information related to cloud security references mentioned below - network 
security, transfer security,firewalling, security confi guration. The three fundamental security 
principles that play a major  role in the security  of cloud are compliance, privacy, architecture.  
CSA is an organization which helps in providing security for the cloud computing platform.  
 1 
Findings  
Cloud computing is regarded as the fastest, accessible and conventional means of storing  data to the 
users via the internet . It replaced hardware to software which brought a huge profit to the IT industry 
not only in case of money but also in time consumpt ion as a user can access their data from any Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
139 corner of the world provided there is a good bandwidth. Cloud computing is facing a series of 
challenges such as the hacking, phishing etc. It is facing a great issue as it exposes the identity and 
privacy to th e public. The security of the cloud  must be increased and strengthened drastically so 
that no hacker can access  the valuable data of the user and ensure the privacy of the users. There are 
institutions that ensure the security of these but it is still not up to the mark. There are technologies 
like virtualization and Multi -tenancy which is used to develop the cloud security and its interface. 
These are developed in order to increase the data security and isolation process.  
 
Conclusion and Recommendation:  
One can infer details about cloud computing and mainly its security. The cloud service is provided 
by the CSP i.e. cloud service provider. The main focus is to improve and ensure cloud computing 
security . Virtualization and Multi -tenancy are the key technolo gies that are used to develop and run 
the cloud security. The users must understand more about the cloud  and must know about its 
transparency which avoids up to a certain extent. So, we recommend the cloud servers to increase 
the security of the cloud to m ake the cloud service a more user-friendly . Two-factor  authentication 
or multi -factor  authentication should be practised to protect the data. Cache and cookies should be 
cleared  frequently, passwords should never be auto -saved in a pc. 
 
References  
Carlin, S., & Curran, K. (2013). Cloud computing security. In  Pervasive and Ubiquitous Technology 
Innovations for Ambient Intelligence Environments  (pp. 12 -17). IGI Global.  
Chen, Y., Paxson, V., & Katz, R. H. (2010). What‘s new about cloud computing security.  Univ ersity 
of California, Berkeley Report No. UCB/EECS -2010 -5 January,  20(2010), 2010 -5. 
Gonzalez, N., Miers, C., Redigolo, F., Simplicio, M., Carvalho, T., Näslund, M., &Pourzandi, M. 
(2012). A quantitative analysis of current security concerns and solutions for cloud 
computing.  Journal of Cloud Computing: Advances, Systems and Applications,  1(1) 
Mishra, A., Mathur, R., Jain, S., & Rathore, J. S. (2013). Cloud computing security.  International 
Journal on Recent and Innovation Trends in Computing and Communicat ion, 1(1), 36 -39. 
Padhy, R. P., Patra, M. R., &Satapathy, S. C. (2011). Cloud computing: security issues and research 
challenges.  International Journal of Computer Science and Information Technology & 
Security (IJCSITS),  1(2), 136 -146. 
Popović, K., &Hocens ki, Ž. (2010, May). Cloud computing security issues and challenges. 
In MIPRO, 2010 proceedings of the 33rd international convention  (pp. 344 -349). IEEE.  
Ramgovind, S., Eloff, M. M., & Smith, E. (2010, August). The management of security in cloud 
computing.  In Information Security for South Africa (ISSA), 2010  (pp. 1 -7). IEEE.  
So, K. (2011). Cloud computing security issues and challenges.  International Journal of Computer 
Networks,  3(5), 247 -55. 
So, K. (2011). Cloud computing security issues and challenges.  International Journal of Computer 
Networks,  3(5), 247 -55. 
Wang, C., Wang, Q., Ren, K., & Lou, W. (2009, July). Ensuring data storage security in cloud 
computing. In  Quality of Service, 2009. IWQoS. 17th International Workshop on  (pp. 1 -9). 
Ieee.  
 
 ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
140 ARTIFICI AL INTELLIGENCE THE FUTURE OF LEARNING  
 
SOMANNAGARI RISHIKESAVA REDDY  
B.Tech Computer science  
Email ID: rishikesava.reddy2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
What is Artificial Intelligence?  
[1] Artificial Intelligence is the duplication of human intelligence processes  by machines. It is the 
technology of making updated machines, updated computer programs. It is developed to connect 
human brain with computer intelligence and work more efficiently than humans .There are three 
types of artificial Intelligence 1.  Artificia l Narrow Intelligence 2.  Artificial General intelligence  
3. Artificial Super Intelligence . AI is  leading many industries whit its advanced technology.   
The future with artificial intelligence is easy .AI works by gathering large amount of data with fast, 
reiteration processing and intelligent algorithms. But AI does not have to restrict itself to methods 
that are biologically observable. Artificial intelligence is opposed to natural intelligence. [2] The aim 
of Artificial Intelligence is to identify and so lve manageable information deal with problems. AI  is a 
field in computer science . It is a intelligent technology used to develop the computer  programming. 
artificial intelligence is making our everyday life more efficiency and easy to live. Artificial 
intelligence includes manufacturing robots, self driving cars, smart assistance, disease mapping, 
social media monitoring , active healthcare management , machine learning, etc...  Applications of 
Artificial Intelligence include natural language processing, speec h recognition and machine vision. 
Artificial Intelligence is widely used to provide personalized guidance to people.  
 
History of Artificial Intelligence  
[3] In the history AI are treated to philosophy and imagination. John  McCarthy is the father of 
artificial intelligence .The further inventions in electronics and many other inventions impact on 
Artificial Intelligence. The first work on Artificial Intelligence was done in 20th century by the 
British logician and computer explorer Alan Mathison Turni ng. Lovingly was the first AI robot 
developed by Shakey from 1966 to 1972 it can do any tasks without step to step instructions .At a 
conference at Dartmouth college , in Hanover ,New  Hampshire the name Artificial Intelligence was 
coined . [4] AI was first  developed in 1950's. From 1974 some governments started funding AI to 
develop their country in the way of technology several inventions were discovered on AI in 1950's . 
later in 2000's this inventions are overcome by the new technologies.  Now AI is capabl e of 
understanding complex algorithms and self learning. Japan is the country that is well developed in 
Artificial intelligence. Artificial Intelligence can be applied in medical field were humans can't solve 
the problem .By the gradual development Artific ial Intelligence it can do the things which humans 
can't do. Artificial Intelligence was discovered to match t he human thoughts with machines . 
Artificial Intelligence will be the future of Learning.  
 
Artificial Intelligence in India  
[5]India was ranked eighth in the top 10 countries by AI patent families in global level. Artificial 
Intelligence practices benefit India in addressing social needs in sectors such as healthcare  
education, agriculture, smart cities  and in frastructure and transportation . Tata Elxsi is leading 
artificial in telligence in India . The career in AI is very good in India the AI salary is much higher 
than the national average salary . In the starting of the 21st century Artificial intelligence has great Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
141 boom due to its advanced technolo gy in India. Artificial Intelligence is one of the most trending and 
competitive field in the present days.  It s used by the many of the leading companies today. The 
growth of AI is increasing day by day. The introduction of Artificial Intelligence into th e national 
economy system is huge and cannot be limited to only some companies. The growth of artificial 
intellig ence from 2020 to 2021 is 28.4% . The global AI software is expected to grow 54% every 
year. [6] Artificial Intelligence is considered to be the  fourth industrial revolution. Artificial 
Intelligence with its intelligence technology transformed all industries around the world. AI refers to 
the link of human or animal brain to the computer technology. Artificial Intelligence  is making the 
humans wor k free . AI taking the works which are dangerous for humans to do. According to 2019 
reports applications for AI  have grown 270% in four years . Artificial Intelligence machines takes 
less time th an the humans to perform a task . Gradually AI machines are occ upying the places of 
humans in any work.  
 
Artificial Intell igence in Healthcare Appliances  
[7] Artificial Intelligence is gradually changing the medical experiments with recent development in 
the machine learning and computing infrastructure. Artificial In telligence is used in the areas which 
previously were deal by the human experts. Now with help of AI many medical experiments were 
done. Current applications of Artificial intelligence in healthcare includes data extraction from text 
narratives, predictive algorithms and clinical decision support. [8] Artificial Intelligence aims to 
imitat e human analytic functions .it is bringing ideal shift to health care, by increasing the 
availability of health care data and fast progress of techniques .Artificial Intelligence have saved 
many lives with its advanced technology. Many healthcare appliance s are created by the technology 
of artificial intelligence for medical uses. Artificial Intelligence is performing the operations which 
humans can't perform. Artificial Intelligence with its advanced technology is able to cure many kind 
of disease. [9] Art ificial Intelligence is not a single technology but collection of technologies. Most 
of these technologies are used in the develo pment of health care appliances . The Artificial 
Intelligence supports medical field widely. Artificial Intelligence is used in healthcare appliances as 
managing medical records and other data , doing repetitive jobs , treatment design , medication 
management , drug creation, digital consultation, virtual nurses, precision medicine,  etc..  
 
Artificial Intelligence in Manufacturing and Production  
[10] In the present days the manufacturing and logistics systems are supported by wel l developed 
computer technology  within these technology large amount of data being generated by sensors , 
machines , systems and people.  Artificial Intelligence i s leading many of the manufacturing 
companies. Artificial Intelligence is helpful in making better product design, efficiency of the 
product and good quality of the product . Artificial Intelligence can ensure the safety of employees. 
[11] Artificial Intell igence can reduce the time of production and can also reduce the working time 
of humans .Manufacturing Industry  is the k eystone of the national economy , peoples everyday life 
and national security .Artificial Intelligence helps mach ines to gather more info rmation , finding new 
ideas , to create new things . AI helps in finding product or equipment failure in advance to prevent 
the breakdown of the product. By promoting error free sensor technologies and progress of 
computing methods to lead of intelligence,  the use of intelligent manufacturing process has been 
made possible. [12]  Creativity and modification are important to the manufacturing industry, AI 
machines can help in creating the better product with more efficiency .AI can benefit the 
manufacturing in dustry by finding the failures easily and can easily solve the problem. This ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
142 development should lead to improvement in the new technologies in the manufacturing.AI is used in 
developing the methods used in the manufacturing. Big data and AI give a huge boo st to 
manufacturing industry. Software solutions can use the high volume of data generated by a factory 
to identify regions with similar or repeating characteristics that can be used to make manufacturing 
process more efficient and reduce their energy cons umption.  
 
Artificial Intelligen ce in Security and Surveillance  
[13] There are number of ways in which AI is use d in security and surveillance  the intelligent 
technology in Artificial Intelligence is used in security surveil lance in many developing cities . It is 
used in many leading companies in security. Most of the developed countries are using the security 
cameras that work based on AI. Artificial Intelligence can be used in national security especially in 
three areas 1.militiary 2.information and 3.econ omy. in the military AI is used in making the new 
capabilities and making the exis ting capabilities more powerful . [14]  Artificial Intelligence is used 
in finding the terrorists before they are planning to do any attacks. Terrorism depends on surprise in 
its attacks,  terrorists attacks are not random t hey are very difficult to track . Before the attack  
terrorists plane and prepare by selecting the target and training executors and traveling to the 
targeted country .AI is used in finding the terrorists activi ties and in security of the specific country.  
AI is helpful in preventing the terrorist attack. [15] Surveillance cameras have excess of usage in 
every developing ci ties. There are no place without security cameras security is one of the main 
thing in ever y country. With advanced technology every county is trying to improve their security 
systems.  AI is capable of identifying cyber threats and solve them with human interferenc e. AI is 
used in smart traffic , healthcare , monitoring , and in security needs. Some countries like china, Saudi 
Arabia have their security robots . AI is used in security such as vehicle bomb detection, home 
security, threat screening for big events, crime prevention cameras , Military reconnaissance, border 
control , oil and gas threat detection , infectious disease detection, etc.....  
 
Artif icial Intelligence in Education  
[16] Artificial Intelligence is making many changes in the education system. We cannot  say that AI 
does not have  any impact on Education system . Artificial Intelligence is one of the most developing 
technological force in the present days and changing many industries and influencing the education 
system and implementing new ways in learning. It is adding embedded skills , character and good 
learning  in education system. The way of learning is changing by the artificial intelligence by 
implementing better  ways in teaching and learning. Many of the students are interested in learn ing 
the Artificial Intelligence . [17] The field of Artificial  Intelligenc e has done many changes and 
development over the past twenty five years in education system. It created many new opportunities 
in many fields. It is one of the trending cou rse in the education system . AI helps a student and find 
outs what does he want to l earn and helps in learning which the student is interested. Artificial 
Intelligence helps the students in making  personalized schedule in their learning. Most of the 
students prefer  Artificial Intelligence as their specialization in any course.  [18] There are many 
benefits of AI in education better engagement , curriculum automatic creating , opportunity to find a 
good teacher.  AI helps students in many ways students can receive some more personalized tutoring,  
technology can present the material for student  in a understandable way, AI helps educators identify, 
learning disabilities,  AI helps students to  give reliable feedback . The field Artificial Intelligence is 
producing new technique and learning methods .some students are working on artificial intelligenc e 
and gaining some knowledge in the field of artificial intelligence.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
143 Advant ages of Artificial Intelligence  
[19] Artificial Intelligence takes the less time to do a task as compared to time taken by the humans 
to do .AI can work 24 by 7 without breaks with out extension of time .Artificial Intelligence can take 
faster and own decision and make the work faster and smarter .AI can take risks instead of humans . 
AI produces more powerful and more useful computers .Artificial Intelligence applications are used 
in human intelligence for solving problem or decision making. AI is used in the many of the l eading 
companies and industries . AI is making many changes and development in the technology . AI is 
applied in engineering , economics , law , manufacture,  medicine , modeling, etc... [20]  Artificial 
Intelligence come a long by making many changes in the technology.  The term Artificial 
intelligence was introduced as a 'digital' replacement for the analog 'cybernetics'. George Boole 
,Allen Newell and Herbert Simon were fo unded the first artificial  intelligence laboratory.  Artificial 
Intelligence reduces the human errors in any work .AI solutions can help companies to respond to 
customer queries and solve the customer problems very quickly.  [21] Colorectal cancer is the sec ond 
most dangerous  cancer in the world marked in 2020 due to unrefined mortality rate of 12.0 per 
100000 inhabitants. It can be prevented if glandular tissue is detected early. Due to development in 
technology  glandular tissue is detected e arly by using advanced machines . Artificial Intelligence 
have a greater impact in medical field any kind of disease and virus can be detected early and can be 
cured easily. The use of artificial intelligence in the medical sector is becoming more important day 
by day AI  performs clinical diagnoses and suggest treatments quickly without requiring the patient 
to visit the hospital.  [22] with the rapid growth of mobile devices and a wealth of rich application 
services , the internet of vehicles has struggled to handle mathe matically intensive and delay in 
completing the computing tasks. In the resent days mobile devices are rapidly moving towards 
intelligence to satisfy the mobile users the internet of vehicles is converting into intelligent vehicle 
internet. Artificial Inte lligence is impacting the future of every industry and every human. Artificial 
Intelligence is the main thing in the development of technologies like big data, IOT, etc...[23] with 
the advance development in information technology by using cyberspace cyber crimes are increasing 
day by day .computers and human involvement are not sufficient for protecting the people from 
cyber crime so there should be advanced machines to stop cyber crime it is possible through 
artificial intelligence. Biologically inspired c omputing methods of artificial intelligence have been 
playing important role in preventing cyber crime.  
 
Challenges or Disadvantages o f Artificial Intelligence  
[24]Artificial Intelligence comes with a high cost as it is a complex machine apart from install ation 
cost it's repa ir and maintenance cost is huge . AI is smarter than humans but cannot perform 
emotions and moral values.  they don't know what is ethical is what is legal they don't have their own 
judgment making skills. In the continuous improvement of  artificial intelligence and smart 
technology AI has developed in a very large way. It is also changing the students traditional learning 
methods and it is also changing the teaching methods of teacher . Artificial intelligence has a very 
big impact on the education system.  [25] Artificial Intelligence overcoming t he ways of natural 
intelligence . Artificial intelligence is overcoming the human intelligence and making humans lazy 
and not make them working .Artificial Intelligence cannot improve their experien ce they can 
perform the same task again and again.  Machines can't think creative , they can perform only what 
they thought even if they help in designing and creating they can't  match the power of human brain . 
If mach ines are replaced by the humans , humans lose their job which leads to unemployment the ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
144 reason of GDP stable or not growing is because of unemployment. [26] Artificial Intelligence is 
developing in all areas of humans from the last 10 years. Those who study the robots and artificial 
intelligence in their education have very big impact in their life. Isaac Asimov has already told us 
about the dangers of using artificial intelligence in daily life.  the general application of artificial 
intelligence in field of education is very dangerous and should be studied in deep. The companies 
with AI has a boosting accuracy of 90% but human can have a accuracy of 99%.[27] it is not easy to 
develop the machines as the equipment is so expensive. It costs so much money and so much time to 
create a machine and repa ir it. By using robots in place of humans can cause severe unemployment. 
machine can be easily des troyed if we put in wrong hands . It is making s erver changes in the 
government . All the machine learning models are based on data we have enough date to train  them 
but these data is generated from millions of users around the world,  there is a chance that this d ata 
can be used for bad purpose . [28]  AI is making humans lazy and humans are  not doing the work ,in 
place of humans robots are doing work .every indust ry is looking for exchange of robots in place of 
humans which may do si milar work with more efficiency . But it cannot replace the human 
connective work. Machines cannot make a bond with humans when involves team work. If there is a 
repair in a machine it m ay lo se the information stored in it . Artificial Intelligence is making human 
life dangerous day by day.  
 
Conclusion  
Artificial Intelligence can change the world in the future with its advanced technology.  Many 
industries are developing rapidly because of Artificial Intelligence. Artificial Intelligence is the main 
factor in the growth and development of a country. Many of the student are interested in learning  
Artificial Intelligence. Artificial Intelligence is the future of learning. The methods of teachi ng and 
learning are changed due to artificial intelligence. There are many advantages and disadvantages of 
artificial intelligence.  
 
References  
Abdulov, R. (2020). Artificial intelligence as an important factor of sustainable and crisis -free 
economic grow th. Procedia Computer Science , 169, 468 -472 
Baker, M. J. (2000). The roles of models in Artificial Intelligence and Education research: a 
prospective view.  Journal of Artificial Intelligence and Education , 11, 122 -143. 
Bhbosale, S., Pujari, V., & Multani, Z. (2020). Advantages And Disadvantages Of Artificial 
Intellegence.  Aayushi International Interdisciplinary Research Journal , 227 -230. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53. 
Chen, H., & Wang, F . Y. (2005). Guest editors' introduction: Artificial intelligence for homeland 
security.  IEEE intelligent systems , 20(5), 12 -16. 
Chien, C. F., Dauzère -Pérès, S., Huh, W. T., Jang, Y. J., & Morrison, J. R. (2020). Artificial 
intelligence in manufacturing and logistics systems: algorithms, applications, and case 
studies.  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages and limitations of artificial 
intelligence.  Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -
375. 
Cioffi, R ., Travaglioni, M., Piscitelli, G., Petrillo, A., & De Felice, F. (2020). Artificial intelligence 
and machine learning applications in smart production: Progress, trends, and 
directions.  Sustainability , 12(2), 492.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
145 Davenport, T., & Kalakota, R. (2019). The  potential for artificial intelligence in healthcare.  Future 
healthcare journal , 6(2), 94.  
Dilek, S., Çakır, H., & Aydın, M. (2015). Applications of artificial intelligence techniques to 
combating cyber crimes: A review.  arXiv preprint arXiv:1502.03552 . 
Eldrandaly, K. A., Abdel -Basset, M., & Abdel -Fatah, L. (2019). PTZ -surveillance coverage based 
on artificial intelligence for smart cities.  International Journal of Information 
Management , 49, 520 -532. 
Ghimire, A., Thapa, S., Jha, A. K., Adhikari, S., & Kuma r, A. (2020, October). Accelerating 
business growth with big data and artificial intelligence. In  2020 Fourth International 
Conference on I -SMAC (IoT in Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud)(I -SMAC)  (pp. 441 -
448). IEEE  
Guo, M. Advantages And Disadvantages O f Artificial Intelligence In Business English Teaching.  
Holmes, W., Bialik, M., & Fadel, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education.  Boston: Center for 
Curriculum Redesign . 
Horowitz, M. C., Allen, G. C., Saravalle, E., Cho, A., Frederick, K., & Scharr e, P. (2018).  Artificial 
intelligence and international security . Center for a New American Security.  
Ji, H., Alfarraj, O., & Tolba, A. (2020). Artificial intelligence -empowered edge of vehicles: 
architecture, enabling technologies, and applications.  IEEE Access , 8, 61020 -61034.  
Jiang, F., Jiang, Y., Zhi, H., Dong, Y., Li, H., Ma, S., ... & Wang, Y. (2017). Artificial intelligence 
in healthcare: past, present and future.  Stroke and vascular neurology , 2(4). 
Kaul, V., Enslin, S., & Gross, S. A. (2020). Histo ry of artificial intelligence in 
medicine.  Gastrointestinal endoscopy , 92(4), 807 -812. 
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Advantages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of L ibrary 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Marr, D. (1977). Artificial intelligence —a personal view.  Artificial Intelligence , 9(1), 37 -48. 
McCarthy, J. (2007). What is artificial intelligence?.  
Mogali, S. (2014). Artificial Intelligence and its applications in Libraries. In  Conference: Bilingual 
International Conference on Information Technology: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow, At  
Mohammadi, V., & Minaei, S. (2019). Artificial intelligence in the production process. 
In Engineering tools in the bev erage industry  (pp. 27 -63). Woodhead Publishing  
Roll, I., & Wylie, R. (2016). Evolution and revolution in artificial intelligence in 
education.  International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education , 26(2), 582 -599. 
Tao, B., Díaz, V., & Guerra, Y. ( 2019). Artificial Intelligence and Education, Challenges and 
Disadvantages for the Teacher.  Arctic Journal , 72(12), 30 -50. 
Teng, X. (2019, April). Discussion about artificial intelligence‘s advantages and disadvantages 
compete with natural intelligence. In  Journal of Physics: Conference Series  (Vol. 1187, No. 
3, p. 032083). IOP Publishing.  
Viscaino, M., Bustos, J. T., Muñoz, P., Cheein, C. A., & Cheein, F. A. (2021). Artificial intelligence 
for the early detection of colorectal cancer: A comprehensive revie w of its advantages and 
misconceptions.  World Journal of Gastroenterology , 27(38), 6399.  
Yu, K. H., Beam, A. L., & Kohane, I. S. (2018). Artificial intelligence in healthcare.  Nature 
biomedical engineering , 2(10), 719 -731 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
146 CYBER HACKING  
 
HARSHITH REDDY PARREDDY  
 
VARSHITH REDDY VUYYURU  
 
RAM SAI MANYALA  
Email ID: harshithreddyparreddy@gmail.com  
 
Abstract  
Living in a world where the technology is booming the world, where there is no need to worry for the present 
or the future and has many advantages compare d to the past decades, it has also given people the power to 
use it for the right as well as the wrong. The wrong has also been increasing drastically over the period of 
time. They are the hackers who try to exploit the cyber network constantly and degrade  the trust that the 
legitimate user have  no the advancement in it and the dependency is deteriorating drastically.  
Keywords:  hacking, illegal access, cyber crime, protection, awareness  
 
Introdution  
Hacking means steeling of personal data in an unethical way without the knowledge of the 
individual.  Hacking refers to identifying the weakness of the computer. It also allows to access the 
personal data which is secured. It also refers to modifying the computer software and hardware  to 
complete a goal that an ―individual requires‖.  Those individuals who require the personal data of an 
individual or an organisation are known as ―hackers‖.  
 Hacking is considered to be both a boon and bane to the society. Ethical hacking is a boon for 
the society .Ethical hacking means identifying the weakness of the computer and to upgrade the 
weakness of the computer. There is other kind of hacking known as unethical hacking  which is a 
bane for the society. Unethical hacking means  to known the personal data of a particular indivi dual 
or organisation without the knowledge of the user.  
 
Literary Review  
[1] Cyber terrorism is one of the major problems which the world is facing as there is advancement 
in technology and use of it. It has many reasons for it to be one of the most opted and learnt among 
people. Few are for money, power, fame and to access information. The millennium bug has become 
an increasing threat to the organizations who lose all their originality. Hackers may also target 
individuals or groups to obtain what is desir ed by them.  
 [2] Over the past decades there has developed more problem on cyber terrorism. Much before  
there had been great about the cyber terrorism, including stated fear about their computer that about 
the hacking. The fear become more  by the problem o ften referred to as the millennium bug by those 
to dramatize the threat. Despite the fat that these fears have yet to got matched with real fears and 
real event, in reality when we take the issue of terrorism the danger of cyber terrorism is always is 
on the top of the list of the social fears. From this there will be large number of deaths and lot of 
damage to the nation. That same is true for the cyber terrorism. However, there is a little concrete of 
the terrorism preparing to use the computer as a tool for harming the people. This may hurt the 
people and public. The hacker orders the person to do illegal things so that the hacker will be happy.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
147  [3] This paper gives us information about the various awareness programmes and defensive 
methods practiced or taught to people for better knowledge about the network security and the 
precautions to be taken when and if you are caught up in any such situation. There are also various 
competitions held such as cyber defense competitions which helped them understand t he situation 
better and also spread this to many more institutions for the betterment of the world to face a 
positive cyber environment.  
 [4]Cyber physical system is a organisation which aims at regulating the physical environment in 
which people work. The re are many steps and challenges faced by the CPS in maintaining a better 
cyber world. Few of them are monitoring the exchange of various information, integrating with 
other organisations for better security, providing authenticity, checking on denial of s ervice attacks 
which are the most frequent of all the issues which is done just for fun also. Even snooping and 
eavesdropping ,which are the basic of all the issues, come under network security. These 
organisations face a lot of challenges in their work of  maintaining a secure environment for its 
legitimate users and have developed a framework to ensure the same . 
 [5]This paper talks about the various cyber crimes done by people using unlawful acts where the 
computer is a tool or a target or used as both. S ome of them are cyber stalking, spoofing, gambling, 
snooping into other peoples emails, personal accounts and installing trojan horses onto pc‘s of other 
people to continue the process. It also discusses the preventive methods which are to be taken like 
using firewalls, antivirus softwares, etc. There  are also methods to detect the intrusions which are 
discussed in the paper. It also mentions the work of the Cyber law of India which was passed in the 
year 2000 and their response to the crimes being carried out. 
 [6]Now a days there is much more importance for the  data they have in the companies. The data 
which they have can be used in ethical way as well as in the unethical way. If everyone is ethical 
then there will be more job opportunities in any field. I n the most of the companies there are more 
requirements for the job that deals with the data protection. Giving security for the data is a 
relatively a lastest development that requires each and everybody involved to make it work.in those 
companies many of  the information professionals use their skills to protect the data what they have. 
Hacking is usally done to steal the data of any company or an organization and make an advantage 
of it and earn money of it. Some of the professionals use this data in unet hical way to avoid the 
payments for the required services .this is not only unethical but also it is a crime and it is banned in 
many of the countries.  
 [7] The security to be provided mainly focuses on the availability, integrity and confidentiality 
of th e information of its users. It tracks its illegal users by using the TCP/IP protocol where the IP 
address is used for back tracking and it allows the incharge people to get the person who has been 
involved in such activities. Damage caused due to such prac tices leads to huge loss for the huge 
multinational companies , damage to their reputation and many more. The problem may also be 
because of the use of poor secured code and the carelessness of the company or the organisation 
undergoing the loss.  
 [8]Cyber  attacking has been increasing in a fast rate where they disrupt the normal functioning 
of the network due to malicious network events and other intensions such as the greed for money, 
acquiring of the information of others illegally. Some of them create u ser-friendly softwares which 
get directly downloaded on to the desktop directly and do the backend server upload work, just like 
trojan horses and corrupt the other files and softwares on the same MAC address also which leads to 
the total control  in the ha nds of the attackers.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
148  [9]Cyber hacking is palying now a dominated role in the society.even a small thing that was 
done using technology can be known by this cyber hacking.we are watching different situations 
everyday in megacities  like Hyderabad Mumbai De lhi Chennai etc . The police making efforts to 
stop cyber hacking and they are even reducing it but not in a large scale . Recently in Hyderabad 
situation took place with the help of Cyber hacking the hacked server of a big IT company stole the 
company dat a and sold it to other IT companies for huge amount. It took almost 15 to 20 days to 
catch that cyber hacker by the police. Like this many incidents are taking place in our day to day life 
and this server hacking is increasing day by day. The former Presid ent of America Barack Obama 
said that a company‘s economy depends on the cyber security of the country.  
 [10] This paper discusses about the various denial of service attacks such as denying the right to 
access the information, denial of access to applicat ions by blocking the site, denial of access to a 
website by sending unwanted messages to it, denial of access to resources by not giving access to 
that person. The improvements which can be made are  multiple network monitoring, connection 
state tracking, p redicting source address, improving the infrastructure of the firewalls being used 
which enhances better security and doesn‘t allow any malpractices to happen.  
 [11]Many international terrorists gain knowledge about how to hack and gain illegal information  
and use it against the computers in the US especially. There are many ways of attack suck as 
physical attack, electronic attack and computer network attack. They lay a critical plan on how to get 
their tasks done and work as a team to get work done easier  and in a better way. These professionals 
also create a link between hackers and terrorists where they partner together and get things done at 
an even larger scale.  
 [12]Attribution is defined as identity of an attacker‘s intermediary.in normal words it is  know as 
―source tracking‖ instead we call it as ―attribution‖,  and in commercial world it is distributed denial 
of service(DDoS)attacks. It  means intermediates but not only attackers. A resulting identity may be 
a persons name, an account, or simply infor mation about the person who is operating the hacking 
things  
 
Findings  
We found that hacking has been used for both ethical and unethical practices and the good about it is 
that there is awareness also being spread to change the world of cyber networking and the bad is that 
they try to gain unwanted access to information of others which puts them in huge loss and may also 
lead to closure of the organisation.[13] ―Searching becomes complex depending on large volume of 
data that are usually in the form of un structured data, searching similarity over large volume of data 
with less response time and retrieval accuracy‖.  
 
Conclusion  
There can be better and stronger usage of coding and backup used when various softwares are 
launched and continuous check on the ex change of information in each and every part of the world. 
Also the punishments for such illegal  practice s should be made more stringent , thus expecting a 
reduction in such problems thereafter.  
 
References  
Anderson, R. S. (2009).  Cyber security and resilient systems (No. INL/CON -09-16096). Idaho 
National Laboratory (INL).  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
149 Anderson, R. S. (2009).  Cyber security and resilient systems (No. INL/CON -09-16096). Idaho 
National Laboratory (INL).  
Conklin, A. (2006, January). Cyber defense competitions and infor mation security education: An 
active learning solution for a capstone course. In  System Sciences, 2006. HICSS'06. 
Proceedings of the 39th Annual Hawaii International Conference on  (Vol. 9, pp. 220b -
220b). IEEE.  
Furnell, S. M., & Warren, M. J. (1999). Compu ter hacking and cyber terrorism: The real threats in 
the new millennium?.  Computers & Security , 18(1), 28 -34. 
Jain, N., & Jain, K. (2011). Cyber Crime: Prevention, Detection and Prosecution. In  First 
International Conference of the South Asian Society of C riminology and Victimology 
(SASCV), 15 -17 January 2011, Jaipur, Rajasthan, India: SASCV 2011 Conference 
Proceedings  (p. 116). K. Jaishankar.  
Schuba, C. L., Krsul, I. V., Kuhn, M. G., Spafford, E. H., Sundaram, A., & Zamboni, D. (1997, 
May). Analysis of a d enial of service attack on TCP. In  Security and Privacy, 1997. 
Proceedings., 1997 IEEE Symposium on  (pp. 208 -223). IEEE.  
ShanmugaSundari, P., Subaji, M., & Karthikeyan, J. (2017). A survey on effective similarity search 
models and techniques for big data p rocessing in healthcare system.  Research Journal of 
Pharmacy and Technology, 10 (8), 2677 -2684.  
Stohl, M. (2006). Cyber terrorism: a clear and present danger, the sum of all fears, breaking point or 
patriot games?.  Crime, law and social change , 46(4-5), 223-238. 
Sukhai, N. B. (2004, October). Hacking and cybercrime. In  Proceedings of the 1st annual 
conference on Information security curriculum development  (pp. 128 -132). ACM.  
Uma, M., & Padmavathi, G. (2013). A Survey on Various Cyber Attacks and their Cla ssification.  IJ 
Network Security , 15(5), 390 -396. 
Wang, E. K., Ye, Y., Xu, X., Yiu, S. M., Hui, L. C. K., & Chow, K. P. (2010, December). Security 
issues and challenges for cyber physical system. In  Green Computing and Communications 
(GreenCom), 2010 IEEE/ ACM Int'l Conference on & Int'l Conference on Cyber, Physical 
and Social Computing (CPSCom)  (pp. 733 -738). IEEE.  
Wheeler, D. A., & Larsen, G. N. (2003). Techniques for cyber attack attribution (No. IDA -P-3792). 
INSTITUTE FOR DEFENSE ANALYSES ALEXANDRIA VA.  
Wilson, C. (2003). Computer attack and cyberterrorism: Vulnerabilities and policy issues for 
congress.  Focus on Terrorism , 9, 1-42. 
 
 
  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
150 WHY AND HOW ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IS  
THE NEW BLACK  
 
ISHANVI. KOTHA  
B.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering  
Email ID: ishanvi.kotha2021@vitstudent.ac.in  
 
Introduction  
Today, we live in a society which has aggravated problems thus posing the need for modern and 
intelligent solutions. Intelligent solutions further need genius and capable minds and hence artificial 
intelligence was birthed. Even though AI was discovered a long time ago, it wasn‘t until the recent 
times that serious and advanced research on AI was in work. The aim of AI is to replicate human 
minds to solve real world problems. The different domains of AI are discussed in detail in the 
following sections.  
 
What is AI?  
[1] Artificial intelligence is the learning of human minds with the help of simulations run by the 
computer.The mention of the word ―Intelligence‖ in the term Artificial Intelligence is deceptive. 
Usually, this word is used to refer to demonstr ation of any extraordinary accomplishments requiring 
rare cognition. Consequently, it follows that ―artificial intelligence‖ is a technique for replicating a 
treasure of clever insights using computational models built using relevant data of past experienc es. 
However, the challenge for AI comes from the computed efforts to replicate the mental faculties of 
―ordinary‖ people, such as vision and natural language. The basic premise of AI is the following:  
 The brain is assumed to also use similar computation based on past experiences to arrive at 
insights and decisions.AI is usually put into use to replicate the general attitude that goes along with 
intelligence, while it does not assure a specific way of fabricating the outcome as the AI methods 
may not be cl osely what humans follow).  [2] Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a broad term that 
indicates use of a computational model to simulate intelligent behaviour with negligible human 
intervention.  
 AI is considered a culmination of both science and engineering to  build intelligent machines. 
This idea was envisaged as early as 1956. The concept is applied in a broad range of fields including 
Health industry in the form of robotic surgeries, aid medical diagnosis, medical statistics etc.   
 
History of AI  
[3] AI began as make -believe invention, science fiction and promise. Those who authored Science 
fiction utilised their imagination of smart machines to develop the fantasy of intelligent inanimate 
objects serving their fantasies based on our own human features an d properties. Although their 
imagination was limited and were to serve the curiosity of their audience.The early invented AI skill 
was Chess which was broadly used as a measure for studying interpretation mechanisms in the early 
years of AI research. Durin g twentieth century innovations in electronics and after World War II 
advent of modern computers at Harvard, Bell Laboratories the IBM showed possibilities of fictious 
demonstrations. This resulted in tremendous computing power. During the latter half of t he century, 
computational devices and computer languages powerful enough to develop tests of concepts came 
up. Artificial Intelligence does not only mean robots. But it is very much about being empathetic 
about nature of intelligence and feat using compute rs as experimental machines.[4] Leonardo Da Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
151 Vinci drafted designs for a robot in the form of a primitive cavalier in the year 1495. It is not known 
if his contemporaries tried to replicate his design. His design was expected to be able to move its 
limbs, s it, stand and open its mouth wide open.In the book Leviathan, Thomas Hobbes wrote that it 
is possible to build an artificial animal.  
 
Growth of AI  
[5] Artificial Intelligence is engineering science comprising of a set of computation technologies 
that are motivated by operating out of the box from the usual patterns people use their cognitive 
skills and senses to understand, apply reason and act. While the rate of advancements in AI has been 
irregular, there have been noteworthy developments since the field ‘s commencement several years 
ago. This was once mostly an academic research topic; the ongoing century AI empowers  
mainstream technologies that are having impressive impact on our lives every day. Futuristic vision 
and AI planning drive the video games ar e now a profit -making entertainment industry than the 
mostly popular Hollywood. Deep learning is a form of ML that is based on layered representations 
of different possibilities also known as neural networks. It has made understanding voice commands 
possib le on devices, and Deep Learning can be applied in various ways of applications that count on 
pattern recognition. Natural Language Processing (NLP) has powered machines to carry out 
effective web searches. [6] Artificial intelligence (AI) has been progress ing swiftly in last few years. 
It is measured in context of resources devoted to it and the quality of different outputs.  
 Recent indication suggests that AI is having a big impact on the economy. A variety of statistics 
show robotics shipments, AI start -ups, and rising number of patents. A review of recent research 
shows that AI and robotics have the possibility to increase productivity and may have combined 
effects on labour.  These rapid progressions apply not to the field of AI, but to all the connection s 
including and not limited to robotics, sensors via digitization (known as ―Industry 4.0‖). These 
improvements have started to appear themselves in a variety of applications, including AI 
conquering humans at complex strategy games.  
 
AI in Healthcare Appliances  
[7] P ressure, is force divided cross -sectional area over which it exerts. Inside the human body, 
regular physiological activities build various pressures, suchblood pressure  etc., all of which are 
vital health measures. Pressure sensors can pro duce signals and function in a manner.  AI can hence 
help in the successful execution of this product.Artificial intelligence is human -like intelligence 
displayed by machines and algorithms is an important research area for sensors.  As technology is 
progres sing, remarkable development has been observed in this field with impressive advantages 
like its pliability and economic cost.Another outstanding invention is organic pressure sensors 
whose sensing capabilities transcend that of human skin which is the mos t widespread organ of the 
body. This has been a huge breakthrough in the development of electronic skin, popularly known as 
e-skin. [8] Internet of Things, popularly known as IoT, is a part of AI and is an essential key to 
building smart homes. Recent inno vation of IoT in healthcare is the observation of a baby‘s actions 
through intelligent multimodal system which makes use of control charts.RaspberryPi is the 
technology used to create these control charts. A control chart is created in real time and linked  to 
vision sensors. The baby‘s behaviour is monitored through indications on the chart. If the value is 
above a certain value or below a certain value, it implies abnormal baby behaviour. This data is 
transferred to special IoT devices in smart healthcare centres, specifically to the person incharge of 
taking care of the baby, so as to give the necessary treatment and attention. This model has been a ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
152 huge success in observing baby(ies) using advanced technology. [9] Orthognathic surgery is a 
surgery perform ed to correct jaw or lower face conditions.Prognosis and treatment methodology is 
crucial for a triumphant surgery and good recovery. Hence, accuracy is very important. Since AI had 
already been used to tackle different problems in the medical fieldwhich a lso turned out to be 
successful, it was decided to innovate models based on AIthat can be used to decide the mode of 
treatment for orthognathic surgeries. 316 patients were studied under this framework. The model 
prescribed invasive mode of treatment for 1 60 patients and a non -invasive approach for156 
patients.It worked with 2 neural layers and 1 hidden layer. There were 3 different stages to decide 
which approach was the best and based on these stages, 4 models seemed to perform exceptionally 
well. These m odels had an accuracy rate of 96% in terms of deciding treatment plan and 91% 
accuracy in terms of detailed explanation and final outcome. This suggests that AI can be used to 
study orthognathic patient and can also be used to devise the optimum treatment plan.  
 
AI in Manufacturing and Production  
[10] Based on research into the applications of artificial intelligence (AI) technology in the 
manufacturing industry in recent years, we analyze the rapid development of core technologies in 
the new era of ‗Inter net plus AI‘, which is triggering a great change in the models, means, and 
ecosystems of the manufacturing industry, as well as in the development of AI. We then propose new 
models, means, and forms of intelligent manufacturing, intelligent manufacturing s ystem architecture, 
and intelligent manufacturing technology system, based on the integration of AI technology with 
information communications, manufacturing, and related product technology. Moreover, from the 
perspectives of intelligent manufacturing appl ication technology, industry, and application 
demonstration, the current development in intelligent manufacturing is discussed. Finally, suggestions 
for the application of AI in intelligent manufacturing in China are presented.[11] Manufacturing is 
awaitin g a great challenge - the challenge of Artificial Intelligence (AI). We are witnessing the 
proliferation of applications of AI in industry, ranging from finance and marketing to design and 
manufacturing processes. The AI tools have been incorporated into c omputer -aided design software, 
shop-floor operations software, as well as in entering the logistics systems. The success of AI in 
manufacturing can be measured by their growing number of applications, releases of new software 
products, companies developing  and distributing these products, conferences and new publications. 
[12] Series of constant production is intelligent production. They are classified into 3 categories: 
digital manufacturing, digital -networked manufacturing, and new -generation intelligent 
manufacturing. New -generation intelligent manufacturing corresponds to incorporating AI into 
production and manufacturing technology. This helps in driving the production and manufacturing 
value to heights and increased outputs beneficial to all.   
 
AI in S ecurity and Surveillance  
[13] AI has seen tremendous growth in the world. Different sectors of every country are trying to 
come up with strategic plans to implement AI to increase their security. Businesses use artificial 
intelligence to improve systemati c transformation; city officials are using AI to control the traffic 
situation. This technology is proliferating at a fast speed. At least 75 out of 176 countries are using it 
for monitoring and inspection for example, facial recognition systems, smart and  safe city, policing. 
One such country which has put AI to a very intelligent and beneficial use is China. Chinese 
companies —particularly Huawei, Hikvision, Dahua, and ZTE — are supplying AI surveillance 
technology in 63 nations.  Huawei is in charge of supplying AIS technology to at least 50 countries Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
153 in the world. Other companies based in —France, Germany, Israel, Japan —are also playing a 
significant role in growing this technology to the nations use.[14] AI has gained a lot of att ention on 
the international front. Most of the developed countries are trying to understand AI better and are 
trying to implement it to increase their security. One such example is China. China‘s officials 
believe in mastering and conquering AI technology to protect their citizens and country. Their 
community policies focus on the AI strategies of other countries like the United States of America. 
One of their assigned communities dissect everything that is to be known from the reports of AI 
strategies used  by USA. [15] AI surveillance is used to track the growth of COVID 19 cases, 
prognosis of the cases and trace its reach. This is done by collecting information from all citizens 
irrespective of their health status. There are many foundations that can suppo rt and help health care 
officials. These foundations are not exactly invented to suite the pandemic scenario, they can be 
used to answer any worries related to rights, privacy etc.  
 
AI in Education  
[16] In the age of modern technology, AI has impacted the working of a nation including the 
education sector. It has influenced the teaching methodologies in massive ways. The footprint left by 
AI on education can be explored in 2 sections – First, what is  supposed to be taught to students in AI 
and second, how it can remould education. Let us tackle the first question. Modern education must 
focus on developing the following qualities in students in order to make the most out of life and the 
resources provi ded –  
1. Ambidexterity to be confident and tackle challenges with an optimistic attitude.  
2. Applicability which serves as an incentive.  
 These qualities can be embedded in the students by emphasising on present day skills, judicious 
attention on traditional skills and practice of concepts learnt in the classroom in real life problems.  
 Moving on to the second question, education can be remoulded by using EdTech and AIED 
(artificial intelligence in education). Of course, these should be implemented in a phased  manner in 
order to expect maximum output. Companies like Google, Amazon and Facebook have invested 
millions in AIED to create technologies that focus on empowering students to get hold of their 
learning therefore making this interactive mode of teaching m ore fun and engaging, in a way that 
students have a broader perspective on gaining knowledge, in the right way.[17] AIED has 
undergone a lot of transformation over the past few years in order to develop the perfect teaching 
methodology for students that br ings out the best in them. The main objective of AIED is to 
innovate new ways to replace the old school face to face teaching and to our benefit, there has been 
progress towards this target. ILE (interactive learning environment) has shown that AIED has be en 
successful in increasing productivity of the students by modifying the traditional old school methods 
of learning. It also aims to evoke qualities of metalinguistic, reflective and logical reasoning among 
the students. There have been several papers wri tten for a long time now, addressing the system 
evaluation, modelling approach, short comings and the potential problems that we might face and 
solutions to tackle these problems. Some of the essential things to keep in mind while developing a 
strategy are  – type of assignments given to students, whether they work in groups or individually, 
schooling target, type of technology used and academic environment.  
1. The type of assignments given to students can be stepwise problems that require application 
ofonly o ne skill for several problems and intricate problems which require application of 
several skills.  ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
154 2. Independent students can use their own computers or a group of students can use one 
computer ormany students can use different computers and technology and wo rk together to 
solve a problemwhich will help them not only in contributing individually to the solution 
but also to learn from one another hence broadening their perspective.  
3. Educational realms that incorporate joint learning strategy have significantly s hown to 
improve learning experiences of students.  
4. Schools need not be coerced into switching entirely to a computer -based learning in order to 
implement A IED. We can broaden our perspective to include other technologies and 
gadgets like mobile phones, tabs  and other inventions in the field of robotics. These new 
technologies will help revolutionize the education sector.  
5. Learning goals should shift from the final product to the necessary actions that need to be 
taken. This includes self -supervision, joint le arning strategy and inspiration.  
 STEM education is rising in popularity as many schools have started adopting it. STEM stands 
for Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. It helps students to develop higher thinking 
to solve real life problems in  a sophisticated manner.  
 Hence, AIED adopts a comprehensive view on education in the modern world.  
 [18] AI is a revolutionizing technology that aims to replicate the human mind and its responses 
to solve real world problems. It is taking over the entir e world by a storm, by replacing old school 
methodologies by new mind -blowing innovations that specializes in abstractive thinking, complex 
idea comprehension, flexibility, versatility and analysing real world problems. And its application in 
revolutionizi ng the educational realm is no exception. Artificial intelligence has been adapted by the 
world of academia in many ways like switching to online mode of teaching with the help of ground 
breaking technology, utilizing robots for teaching with the help of r eal-world teachers. This has 
significantly helped the teachers to upgrade their quality of instruction, to monitor and give one on 
one focus to students and help them tap their higher potential, and also to evaluate tasks accurately 
and intelligently. Not only does it benefit the teachers, it also gives the students an upper hand in 
personalizing their curriculum, hence improving their learning experience and also boosting their 
confidence, motivation them to reach heights. [19] The success of AIED in the n ear future is 
dependent on three factors.  
1. The transition from old school, black board teaching to joint learning strategy needs the use 
of different learning models which are ahead of the typical statistical models. These models 
need not be analytical or logical.  
2. The existing syllabus needs to be updated while keeping a broad perspective and include 
topics of modern education. The teachers also need to be trained accordingly to make the 
best out of this new system of teaching. Smart classrooms need to be e stablished and one on 
one teaching needs to be emphasised in a smart manner.  
3. Mock -ups can be used to strategically plan the approach and limiting the resources that the 
students can use. It can give clarity on the schemes that it supports and does not supp ort, 
help in application of theory and also come up with new resources for the students to work 
with. For example, the ITS program incorporates all the above -mentioned points which has 
made its transition and implementation very easy and effective.  
 [20] Robotics is a sector that is very fast growing in terms of innovations and applications for its 
wide range of utility. The application of robotics in the education sector has been proven to be very 
effective and educational. One such application is educatio nal cobots which is an assistant that Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
155 assists teachers. Sometimes students can struggle with concentration and teachers may tend to give 
less attention to those who are slow paced and have a hard time in grasping concepts. In such cases, 
cobots come into p lay to help students concentrate and aid the teachers in distinguish between 
students who have different learning speeds so as to provide equal and fair learning opportunities to all.  
Students can take part in ILEs (Intelligent Learning Environment) and be  engaged in all the activities.   
 
Advantages of AI  
[21]One of the strongest characteristics of AI is that it is designed to think like a human. Which 
means it can perform tasks that humans can do. But the best part is that emotions will not be 
involved during decision making which makes it easier to take tough decisions. It is purely based on 
the truth and reality. We often face this issue of not being able to take the necessary steps or 
decisions because our emotions cloud our judgement which leads to b ad choices. With AI, this is no 
longer a problem, thus resulting in accurate decisions for the best. As humans, there is a limit as to 
how much we can work and sometimes this can be a disadvantage. But AI based gadgets do not 
require any resting time which  s huge asset especially when crucial work needs to be done last 
minute. Passing on the information from one person to another can also be very tedious and time 
consuming but this is not at all a problem if AI based gadgets are used. They can be copied and  
transferred to as many devices as required thus being time efficient. [22]  Artificial intelligence 
offers dependability and constancy while being economical. Because of its wide range of 
applicability, it has been used to restructure different fields such  as healthcare, engineering, 
manufacturing and production, education, economics and legislation. It has been meticulously used 
in search engines to categorize, search content, webpages, videos and other relevant content. The 
data stored in it is never lost , in case the organization loses employees due to various reasons, which 
makes it reliable. Problem solving is also faster and time efficient depending upon the intricacy of 
the problem. Another useful application of AI is that it can be used to replace tr affic polices. These 
traffic robots can monitor the traffic situation, study it and foretell the traffic conditions. They can 
report accidents too, if any. AI has been used to increase security as well. It can identify where 
security laws are violated, for mulate new and creative security laws. [23]AI can be applied to 
psychiatry as well. Some of the profitable and prosperous projects that have been executed are –  
1. PARRY is a prototype explaining delusional behaviour in psychiatric patients. It was 
founded b y K. L. Colby.  
2. EMYCIN is a set up that administrates psychiatric illnesses. It was founded by B. Mulsant.  
 Some of the advantages of applying AI to psychiatry are –Patients feel more comfortable in 
sharing their medical history, symptoms and their privat e information to a computer than a human; It 
is cost efficient compared to the traditional face to face psychiatric therapy; Increased productivity 
with minimum to no flaws is also observed.[24]One of the advantages of AI which is lesser known 
and talked a bout is its application in suicide care. Unfortunately, rate of death from suicide is 
growing every year causing 8 lakh deaths every year. What makes it difficult to prevent suicide is 
that it is highly unpredictable as there no single specific cause.  This is the driving force behind the 
innovation of programs, which are based on artificial intelligence, to prevent suicides. The systems 
are designed in a such a way that after entering the relevant data, it will study that past suicide 
outcomes, create a pat tern and be able to discover the major threat factors, recognize individuals or a 
group of individuals who are suicidal or at high risk and design a proper and effective care system 
for those individuals. A system was designed by scientists from Vanderbilt  University to predict ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
156 whether an individual is suicidal or not using data from the patient‘s health records. This system 
displayed a precision of 84 -92% in 7 days and 80 -82% in a year therefore making it accurate and 
reliable.  
 Due to the high success ra te of these models, it can be implemented on a large scale and expand 
its reach to individuals who are in critical need of help and care. It is not only accurate, but also time 
and cost efficient, better than face to face psychiatric therapy sessions and c an be set up in various 
locations. [25]Applications of AI in healthcare is another advantage as it is helping huge masses.  
 Setting up a consultation, reminders for the re -examinations, warning signs against drug 
medication, booster dose reminders for all individuals, doctor‘s appointment for pregnant women is 
made easy through just a few clicks. It is used to record and store the patient‘s medical history, 
prognosis, diagnosis etc and also help in deciding the optimum treatment plan. Robots, which are AI 
based humanoids, are also being used to assist surgeons in surgeries and aid the senior citizen. Many 
intelligent devices like prosthetic control systems have been developed to aid disabled individuals.  
 The field of medicine that is most accepting of AI a nd its applications is radiology. Through this 
wonderful invention, imaging will be accurate and radiologists will be able to analyse them 
efficiently. AI is also used to monitor health and immediately notify the concerned authorities if 
there are any chan ges in the patient‘s condition. [26]  Due to the increasing population, the demand 
for food resources is also increasing. Increasing demand also means increasing prices. Without food 
resources, it becomes a game of survival of the fittest, and in this case survival of the wealthiest as 
they can easily afford it. This huge social inequality which could lead to global hunger is therefore a 
global problem that need immediate attention. It is impossible to meet the current food requirements 
without the intervent ion of modern approaches. The field of artificial intelligence, once again, shines 
as it can be implemented to solve this crisis. AI can be used in crop selection to help the labourers in 
picking a fertilizer. Information about crops and their preferred fe rtilizers for optimum yield are 
entered into the data warehouse which can be accessed later. This process of entering relevant data 
into the machine and equip it to make decisions when presented with problems is known as deep 
learning. It is thorough and e xtensive. Internet of Things (IoT) is the basis of Smart Agriculture. AN 
example of one such application is watering networks which uses soil, moisture, IR, water sensors 
and a motor to perceive environmental data and use that to pump water to the crops wh en it is 
necessary. This way we control irrigation and conserve water. Soon robots can also help in 
agricultural tasks such as weeding, spraying etc. This is not only time efficient compared to manual 
work, but will also decrease labour which is a huge plu s point considering the fact that agriculture is 
a labour -intensive occupation. Hence artificial intelligence in agriculture has a lot of benefits.  
 
Challenges or Dis -advantages of AI  
[27] It is true that AI, being able to replicate the human mind and its responses, has revolutionized 
many areas, but it is not always advantageous. It lacks in many departments like creativity, common 
sense, logic and reasoning. It lacks true understandin g of the world and human emotion which is 
very essential in some cases. Most of the decisions made by AI cannot be explained as it fails to give 
us a fair reasoning. As it lacks common sense, it may also not be able to identify when a problem 
does not have  a fixed solution. If there is flaw, AI can produce incorrect answers and we will never 
know if it is right or wrong as it does not provide any explanation.  
[28]Some of the disadvantages of AI are mentioned below:  
1. If it falls into the wrong hands, it can be very dangerous.  Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
157 2. AI is so powerful with a lot of capabilities that it can soon replace people and hence 
increases the problem of unemployment.  
3. Excessive use of AI gadgets can make us very lazy as we might become heavily dependent 
on them.  
4. To create gadge ts and technology which are AI driven is too expensive and time consuming.  
 [29]Advancements in the field of technology has birthed artificial intelligence, a technology 
which has reformed several domains. It is being thoroughly studies and researched in developed 
countries like the United States, in Europe and developing countries like China and India. Recently, 
new technologies have been developed under artificial intelligence – Information communication 
technology (ICT) and Robot technology (RT). Though  proven to be quite impressive, it has some 
drawbacks.  
1. Prototypes based on ICT are elaborate, heavily reliant on user data and is deficit in 
creativity.  
2. They can affect jobs of individuals.  
3. As most of the tasks are made easy by ICT, their users might ad opt a lethargic lifestyle.  
4. Lesser social interactions.  
5. Initial cost of setting up is expensive. Repair and maintenance of RT is also quite 
extravagant.  
6. As humans are evolving, problems are evolving too. This calls for an update of programs to 
keep up with  the changing scenarios.  
7. RT models are constrained to programming entered by users thus they lack in creativity.  
 [30] Artificial intelligence in medicine has made tremendous progressive which is quite 
impressive. From surgery, radiology, oncology to admi nistration, AI has conquered each one of 
these domains to make much needed and productive advancements. However, AI in medicine has its 
shortcomings which are equally hazardous. Some of them are –  
1. The use of AI can bring up some legitimate disagreements. The ‗Black -Box‘ algorithm 
causes medical negligence and product liability as the machine driven by AI given no 
explanation or reasoning on how it reached the final answer.  
2. AI-developed face recogni tion technology can be at a disadvantage here as patient‘s image 
can be put at stake due to the lack of rules and regulations protecting sensitive and personal 
data. [31]One of the lesser talked about disadvantage of AI is no presence of human touch. 
For e xample, when we see a personality on the television, most of us can recognize them 
elsewhere even if we have seen them for one fleeting moment. But the same is not true if  
the situation was reversed. So, if we were to instruct AI to recognize who -is-who i n huge 
masses, it is very time consuming and exhausting. So, what advantage do we have over AI 
machines? Humans are capable of registering information in a single shot whereas AIs are 
bound to deep learning only. We work in a compliant manner which is very  much needed 
but deficient in AI proving that natural intelligence of the human brain is essential. [32]  
Some of the disadvantages of AI in education are - 
 Robots are emotionless which can prove to be quite unfavourable to both teachers and 
students and he nce unwelcome. Students might lack the basic human emotions that they 
need to express and may feel detached from the human world.   
 Teachers can be replaced easily therefore increase the chances of unemployment which.  
 Robots cannot keep track of each studen t‘s academic records personally and parents will 
be unhappy as there is no two -way communication.   ISBN:  978-93-92995 -10-1 
 
158  Robots are not personalized nor personally invested in seeing the children‘s success and 
cannot provide what the child truly needs. Whether be it giving extr a attention to a slow 
achiever or making sure to give extra push to average students or making sure that high 
achievers are utilizing their talents and opportunities perfectly, nothing can beat a 
human teacher.  
 
Conclusion  
In my opinion, AI is an advanced and futuristic technology which has the capacity to take over the 
world and change many lives for the better only if used for the right causes. Today, we live in a 
society which has aggravated problems thus posing the need for modern and intelligent solutions 
and I believe that AI is the answer that we are all looking for. Be it simple day to day tasks such as 
driving to work, turning on the heater, cleaning, listening to music, or, complex and heavy matters 
which need to be  dealt with intricately such as healthcare solutions, national security, education etc, 
AI steps in to save the day. But it is not always rainbows and butterflies! Just like any other 
technology out there, it is no exception that AI has its disadvantages. But these can be carefully dealt 
with provided we have the right knowledge and motive. Thus, I conclude my thesis by saying that 
AI is definitely a positive influence in our world which should be accepted openly. It can open new 
doors and opportunities for  us to upgrade ourselves into high thinking and high living individuals.  
Hence, Artificial Intelligence is the new black.  
 
References  
Allen, G. C. (2019).  Understanding China's AI strategy: Clues to Chinese strategic thinking on 
artificial intelligence a nd national security . Washington, DC: Center for a New American 
Security.  
Amisha, P. M., Pathania, M., & Rathaur, V. K. (2019). Overview of artificial intelligence in 
medicine.  Journal of family medicine and primary care , 8(7), 2328.  
Baker, M. J. (2000). The roles of models in Artificial Intelligence and Education research: a 
prospective view.  Journal of Artificial Intelligence and Education , 11, 122 -143. 
Buchanan, B. G. (2005). A (very) brief history of artificial intelligence.  Ai Magazine , 26(4), 53 -53. 
Charniak, E. (1985).  Introduction to artificial intelligence . Pearson Education India.  
Chen, L., Chen, P., & Lin, Z. (2020). Artificial intelligence in education: A review.  Ieee Access , 8, 
75264 -75278.  
Choi, H. I., Jung, S. K., Baek, S. H., Lim, W. H., Ahn, S. J., Yang, I. H., & Kim, T. W. (2019). 
Artificial intelligent model with neural network machine learning for the diagnosis of 
orthognathic surgery.  Journal of Craniofacial Surgery , 30(7), 1986 -1989.  
Chowdhury, M., & Sadek, A. W. (2012). Advantages a nd limitations of artificial intelligence.  
Artificial intelligence applications to critical transportation issues , 6(3), 360 -375. 
Feldstein, S. (2019).  The global expansion of AI surveillance  (Vol. 17). Washington, DC: Carnegie 
Endowment for International Peace.  
Fonseka, T. M., Bhat, V., & Kennedy, S. H. (2019). The utility of artificial intelligence in suicide 
risk prediction and the management of suicidal behaviors.  Australian & New Zealand 
Journal of Psychiatry , 53(10), 954 -964. 
Furman, J., & Seamans, R.  (2019). AI and the Economy.  Innovation policy and the economy , 19(1), 
161-191. 
Hamet, P., & Tremblay, J. (2017). Artificial intelligence in medicine.  Metabolism , 69, S36 -S40. Outcomes of Best Practices in Classroom Research  
 
159 Holmes, W., Bialik, M., & Fadel, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education . Boston: Center for 
Curriculum Redesign . 
Hussain, T., Muhammad, K., Khan, S., Ullah, A., Lee, M. Y., & Baik, S. W. (2019). Intelligent baby 
behavior monitoring using embedded vision in IoT for smart healthcare centers.  Journal of 
Artificial Intelligence a nd Systems , 1(1), 110 -124. 
Jha, K., Doshi, A., Patel, P., & Shah, M. (2019). A comprehensive review on automation in 
agriculture using artificial intelligence.  Artificial Intelligence in Agriculture , 2, 1-12. 
Khanzode, K. C. A., & Sarode, R. D. (2020). Adv antages and Disadvantages of Artificial 
Intelligence and Machine Learning: A Literature Review.  International Journal of Library 
& Information Science (IJLIS) , 9(1), 3.  
Kusiak, A. (1990). Intelligent Manufacturing.  System, Prentice -Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ. 
Li, B. H., Hou, B. C., Yu, W. T., Lu, X. B., & Yang, C. W. (2017). Applications of artificial 
intelligence in intelligent manufacturing: a review.  Frontiers of Information Technology & 
Electronic Engineering , 18(1), 86 -96. 
Lu, H., Li, Y., Chen, M., Kim, H., & Serikawa, S. (2018). Brain intelligence: go beyond artificial 
intelligence.  Mobile Networks and Applications , 23(2), 368 -375. 
Nilsson, N. J. (2009).  The quest for artificial intelligence . Cambridge University Press.  
Rigby, M. J. (2019). Ethical dimensions of using artificial intelligence in health care.  AMA Journal 
of Ethics , 21(2), 121 -124.  
Roll, I., & Wylie, R. (2016). Evolution and revolution in artificial intelligence in 
education.  International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Educatio n, 26(2), 582 -599. 
Servan -Schreiber, D. (1986). Artificial intelligence and psychiatry.  Journal of nervous and mental 
disease . 
Shachar, C., Gerke, S., & Adashi, E. Y. (2020). AI surveillance during pandemics: ethical 
implementation imperatives.  Hastings Ce nter Report , 50(3), 18 -21. 
Stone, P., Brooks, R., Brynjolfsson, E., Calo, R., Etzioni, O., Hager, G., ... & Teller, A. (2016). 
Artificial intelligence and life in 2030: the one hundred year study on artificial intelligence.  
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Strong, A. I. (2016). Applications of artificial intelligence & associated technologies.  Science 
[ETEBMS -2016] , 5(6). 
Tao, B., Díaz, V., & Guerra, Y. (2019). Ar tificial Intelligence and Education, Challenges and 
Disadvantages for the Teacher.  Arctic Journal , 72(12), 30 -50. 
Teng, X. (2019, April). Discussion about artificial intelligence‘s advantages and disadvantages 
compete with natural intelligence. In  Journal of Physics: Conference Series  (Vol. 1187, No. 
3, p. 032083). IOP Publishing.  
Timms, M. J. (2016). Letting artificial intelligence in education out of the box: educational cobots 
and smart classrooms.  International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Educ ation , 26(2), 
701-712. 
Zang, Y., Zhang, F., Di, C. A., & Zhu, D. (2015). Advances of flexible pressure sensors toward 
artificial intelligence and health care applications.  Materials Horizons , 2(2), 140 -156. 
Zhou, J., Li, P., Zhou, Y., Wang, B., Zang, J., &  Meng, L. (2018). Toward new -generation 
intelligent manufacturing.  Engineering , 4(1), 11 -20. 
  